
                               1 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Back to the Kitchen

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1533 words


CAMDEN, N.J. -- Food companies tinker with the signature products in their
portfolios at their own risk -- and few products are as classic as Campbell's
chicken noodle soup.

Now, Campbell Soup is altering its famous broth. The new recipe appears first in
a limited-edition line in cans festooned with Chewbacca and other figures from
the coming ''Star Wars'' film. The new version of its chicken noodle soup
contains 20 ingredients, most of which can be found in the average home kitchen,
compared with 30 in its previous incarnation (sold last year in cans featuring
the Avengers).

''We're closing the gap between the kitchen and our plants,'' said Denise M.
Morrison, chief executive of Campbell.

Under Ms. Morrison's leadership, which began in 2011, Campbell has moved quickly
to address changing trends in food and to try to stanch the gradual decline in
unit sales, a measurement of the number of cans of soup sold.

The company is banishing ingredients that today's consumers don't like and using
advertising and social media to have a conversation with consumers about what it
is doing. Acquisitions have also given Campbell toeholds in new markets and
brought new ideas to the organization.

''Before, when we talked about our business, we talked about how many cases we
shipped,'' Ms. Morrison said in an interview here in her office. ''Today, we're
talking about our food'' -- as in what's in it, where it comes from and what
impact it has on the environment.

Changing those traditional recipes carries quite a bit of risk.

''It's a delicate balance because these products are beloved,'' said Charles
Vila, vice president for consumer and customer insights at Campbell. ''Their
profile has become very defined in the consumer mind over the years, so any
change we make is very carefully considered.''

The company also has an incentive to bolster the anemic sales of soup, its core
product.

Globally, soup sales peaked in 2012 at $16.2 billion and have stagnated since,
last year ringing up $16 billion, according to Euromonitor, a consumer research
firm. Euromonitor estimates that sales will fall further this year, to a little
over $15 billion.

Reasons for soup's slump are hard to pin down, said Emily Balsamo, a research
analyst at Euromonitor. ''It's a similar situation in a lot of categories, I
would say, where I think there's just a lot of distrust of larger, established
food companies,'' Ms. Balsamo said. Within the soup category, and even within
the canned soup category, smaller brands like Annie's and Amy's Kitchen or Hain
Celestials are doing relatively better, she said. ''Maybe it has something to do
with them being largely organic.''

In fact, Ms. Balsamo said, early sales of Campbell's new line of organic soup
sold in cartons are strong.

But Campbell, which largely relies on the United States market for its soup
sales, has more to lose than most other big companies selling soup. Campbell
Soup accounted for almost three-quarters of the $1.6 billion in condensed soup
sales here last year, but its unit sales fell more than 5 percent, according to
IRI, a data and research firm. The company also dominates the ready-to-eat soup
business, but there, too, it lost more than 5 percent of market share last year.
(Campbell has attributed some of the decline to reductions it made in
promotional deals with grocery chains.)

Other big soup producers like General Mills, which makes the Progresso brand,
and private-label soup brands also declined in sales. IRI data shows, on the
other hand, that Pacific Foods of Oregon, a maker of organic soup, is gaining
market share.

Ms. Morrison speaks more candidly than most of her peers about the impact that
changing consumer preferences and demographics are having on Campbell and other
large food companies, which she described as ''seismic shifts.''

''There are 80 million millennials now, and they're shopping and thinking
differently about food and in a way that is influential,'' she said.

She said changes in the family are also challenging food companies. ''Families
now are multicultural, multigenerational, single-parent, same-sex, mixed and
traditional,'' Ms. Morrison said.

She also noted that the numbers of middle-class consumers, who powered sales for
so long, were shrinking. ''Food companies largely serve the mainstream, but
there's a shrinking middle class in the U.S., a widening chasm between the haves
and have-nots,'' Ms. Morrison said.

About a year after Ms. Morrison took the helm, Campbell shocked its peers by
buying Bolthouse, a maker of juice and salad dressings, and overnight became one
of the world's largest carrot growers. Bolthouse gave Campbell entree to the
coveted perimeter of the grocery store at a time when consumers were
increasingly shunning the middle aisles that were long home to the company's
products.

The next year, Campbell bought Plum Organics, a fast-growing producer of pouched
baby and children's foods that deftly uses social media to connect with
consumers. In the last year, 40 percent of Campbell's advertising budget has
gone to social media and digital advertising, in large part based on what it has
learned from Plum, according to Mark Alexander, president of the company's
United States business.

Campbell then opened an avenue into China with the purchase of the Kelsen Group,
a Danish maker of cookies and snacks with an impressive footprint in Asia. And
this year, Campbell acquired the tiny Garden Fresh Gourmet, a purveyor of
refrigerated salsas and dips, in a nod to the growth of snacking.

At the same time, Campbell has added new products like Skillet Sauces, sold in
pouches, and Slow Kettle soups in tubs -- just heat and eat. Such products play
the same role in America's kitchen as Campbell's soup did in the past, offering
kitchen cooks shortcuts and busy consumers a quick meal.

''We've really accelerated our innovation program,'' Mr. Alexander said,
referring to the company's simple meals and beverage business in the United
States. ''About 11 or 12 percent of our sales last year came from products
launched in the last three years, compared to mid-single digits in the past.''

Campbell is retooling its traditional portfolio as rapidly as it can. ''The
biggest challenge was time,'' said Jesse Fellows, a senior technologist for
product development at Campbell, who was charged with simplifying chicken noodle
soup.

It took two months of intense work to come up with the balance of ingredients
that would produce a broth and noodles that tasted the same or better than the
soup that had been produced the same way since 2011, when Campbell's adjusted
the spices and reduced the beta carotene used to impart color.

Those were relatively simple changes. Mr. Fellows was asked for a more thorough
overhaul aimed at getting rid of ingredients that are out of favor, things like
monosodium glutamate, or MSG, and disodium inosinate and disodium guanylate,
which enhance flavor, as well as things like vegetable oil and cornstarch.
(Celery was eliminated because child taste-testers didn't like the flavor, a
spokeswoman said.)

By changing the proportion of yeast extract and other flavorings, Mr. Fellows
said, he was able to offset the loss of the chemical flavor enhancers.

And working with Campbell's chefs, he added and subtracted things like water and
dehydrated chicken broth. ''The culinary department owns the flavor, and we
worked hard to uphold the reputation of chicken noodle soup,'' said Bryan Cozzi,
a test chef at Campbell.

But the process does not end when Mr. Fellows and Mr. Cozzi finish their work.
They may be sent back to the drawing board if the new formulation adds cost to a
product. ''Often the biggest challenge is affordability,'' said Jeff George,
vice president for research and development. ''In some cases, we can pass on the
cost, but often, we can't.''

Campbell may even tinker with shipping cases and labels to bring the cost in
line.

This fall, Campbell began a new advertising campaign, ''Made for Real, Real
Life,'' which aims to reintroduce consumers to the idea that soup can be a
staple in the kitchen. The first spot in the series, which features a gay couple
feeding their young son Campbell's Star Wars chicken noodle soup, kicked up a
controversy, but Campbell's shrugged it off.

''No one has seen the whole campaign,'' Mr. Vila said. ''There are a variety of
families in it, reflecting the mosaic of families we have in America today.''

The second ad in the series features a mother and father preparing an organic
tomato soup for their son. ''At least we know what he's eating,'' the young
father says to his wife -- oblivious to his son, licking a glue stick at the
table.

In the kitchens here, food scientists and chefs are gingerly tinkering with
Campbell's classic tomato soup.

Mostly, that is about replacing high-fructose corn syrup with sugar. But that
changes the taste and texture slightly -- one test version was less sweet, more
tangy and slightly less silky in the mouth.

''Will that make a difference to consumers who've eaten this soup for years and
love it just the way it is?'' Mr. George said. ''That's the question we ask
ourselves over and over again.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/campbell-rethinks-its-recipe-as-consu
mer-tastes-change.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bryan Cozzi, a test chef at Campbell, and Erika Ellefsen, an
intern, in the research and development kitchen at Campbell's office. (B1):
Preparing ingredients in the test kitchen at Campbell Soup headquarters in
Camden, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN THOMAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE
(90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CANNED FOOD PROCESSING (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MARKET
RESEARCH (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); TRENDS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH &
ANALYSIS (72%); SALES PROJECTIONS (60%)

COMPANY: AMY'S KITCHEN INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2038 FROZEN
SPECIALTIES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: DENISE MORRISON (79%); CRAIG O MORRISON (73%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Myanmar Vote Seen as Sweep by Opposition

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER; Reporting was contributed by Wai Moe from Mandalay,
Myanmar, and Saw Nang, Eaint Thiri Thu and Adam Dean from Yangon.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words


YANGON, Myanmar -- After struggling against the heavy hand of the Burmese
military for two and a half decades, the opposition party of the Nobel Peace
Prize laureate Daw Aung San Suu Kyi said Monday that it was confident of a
sweeping victory in the country's landmark nationwide elections.

Although official results of Sunday's election trickled in for only a handful of
districts, the potential electoral success by Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi's political
movement underlined the appeal of a woman who sacrificed her family, her health
and 15 years of her life as a political prisoner to oppose dictatorship in
Myanmar.

But it also portends a troubled and uncertain transition for Myanmar, and a
dilemma for the military-backed government that until now has tried to manage
the path away from isolation and dictatorship on its own terms. ''Nationwide, we
got over 70 percent,'' said U Win Htein, a senior member of Ms. Aung San Suu
Kyi's party. He cautioned that the results were not yet official, but added,
''We can call this a landslide victory.''

If the results of the election are respected by the current government and the
military, it will be the first time in more than five decades that voters in
Myanmar have been able to choose their leaders freely.

Landslide was the term used to describe the outcome the last time Myanmar had a
free election, a quarter of a century ago, when Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi led
democratic forces to a victory over the military's proxies, winning 80 percent
of the seats in Parliament.

The military's answer then was to lock up its opponents, including Ms. Aung San
Suu Kyi, who was put under house arrest even before the vote; nullify the
results; and impose a sort of isolated dark age for the country just as its
neighbors were riding the Asian economic boom to greater prosperity.

This time seems different, although how different remains to be seen. Unlike in
1990, Myanmar, the former British colony once known as Burma, is increasingly
engaged with the world, including with the United States, which has invested
considerable political capital and closely watched the unfolding transition
toward democracy.

The American Embassy had teams of observers in every state and region of the
country on Sunday. In a carefully worded congratulatory statement, Secretary of
State John Kerry warned that ''a peaceful postelection period is crucial for
stability'' and for the political transition.

While such warnings may not have been far from the surface, the mood across
Yangon and other parts of the country was electric. Even a torrential downpour
on Monday afternoon could not bring down the spirits of a crowd of opposition
supporters who cheered and sang as they watched the results on a giant TV screen
outside the party's headquarters here.

''I haven't been able to eat anything since yesterday because I'm so happy,''
said one supporter, Daw Than Than Htay. ''This is going to change everything in
our country.''

Official results were fragmentary but what news there was was not good for the
ruling Union Solidarity and Development Party.

By the end of the day Monday, the election commission had announced the votes
for only 54 of the 664 seats in Parliament. Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi's party, the
National League for Democracy, won 49 of them.

And a number of powerful members of the military establishment conceded defeat,
including former senior military officers who were among the most prominent
figures in the quasi-civilian government that has been in power since 2011.

Thura Shwe Mann, the speaker of the lower house of Parliament and a former
general, lost his seat as did a host of high-profile ministers, almost all of
them former generals.

''Nationwide, we won in some parts, and we lost in some parts,'' U Htay Oo, the
chairman of the governing party, was quoted as saying in the Burmese news media
on Monday. ''But we had a greater share of losses.''

He, too, lost his seat.

''You should never underestimate the people's desire,'' said U Khin Maung Yi,
the man who defeated Mr. Htay Oo. ''It is clear that people voted for us because
they believe we can bring hope and change for them.''

While that may be, many voters said they cast their lot with the opposition
because of Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi. The daughter of the country's independence
hero, Aung San, she is often referred to affectionately in rural precincts as
Mother Suu or simply the Lady.

''Of course, we love Mother Suu,'' said Daw Kyi Kyi Htay, a 39-year-old rice
farmer from an impoverished farming village in the Irrawaddy Delta. ''I can't
give you a reason. I just love her.''

Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi's persistent appeal seems to have somehow outlasted the
efforts to keep her down and out of power.

The deck was stacked against her. The military-drawn Constitution included
enough guarantees of military power and specific bars against her that a clear
victory seemed all but out of the question.

The Constitution prohibits her from becoming president and retains crucial
ministries for the military. Moreover, the military reserves the right to
appoint a quarter of the seats in Parliament, meaning that for the opposition to
control a simple majority it will have to win more than two-thirds of the open
seats, a proposition few considered likely.

If her party's claimed percentages hold up, she may have beaten the generals at
their own game.

Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi was cautious in her comments to reporters on Monday, but
she hinted at big gains, saying voters had ''already understood'' the result.

''The loser must face the loss bravely and calmly, and the winner must be humble
and very magnanimous,'' she said.

Such caution has characterized her policies as an opposition member of
Parliament for the last five years, tarnishing her image as a democratic
idealist.

In the West, human rights campaigners denounced her lack of action and support
for Myanmar's disenfranchised and persecuted Muslim minority, the Rohingya.
Hundreds of thousands of Rohingya voters were struck from voter rolls this year
and not allowed to vote on Sunday.

But in a country with strong anti-Muslim sentiments, deflecting that issue --
her critics would say ignoring it altogether -- may have allowed her to maintain
her popularity.

Indeed, addressing the plight of the Rohingya and managing Myanmar's other
fractious minorities will remain critical issues for whoever runs the new
government.

A major unknown looming over the question of whether the National League for
Democracy could win a parliamentary mandate in this election was whether ethnic
minorities, who often vote for their own parties, would vote for her.

There were signs on Monday that she had made inroads into ethnic regions, the
vast borderland areas that have historically had autonomy and where local
loyalties have often trumped national ones.

Cherry Zahau, a candidate from the Chin Progressive Party, an ethnic-based
opposition party in Chin State, along the border with India, conceded defeat on
Monday to a candidate from Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi's party.

''It is unbelievable,'' she said. ''Chin voters don't even know who they voted
for. They only know the Lady.''

One of the victors in the election, U Than Nyunt, said Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi's
star power was a major factor in his win over Mr. Shwe Mann, the speaker of
Parliament. Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi was treasured as a symbol of defiance against
the generals and the poverty that has plagued Myanmar even as its neighbors have
become more wealthy.

''The people's message to us is that they want change and they don't want to
live in these circumstances anymore,'' Mr. Than Nyunt said.

In a country fractured by ethnic divisions and riddled with corruption, drug
trafficking and destitution, expectations for the next government are perhaps
implausibly high.

But this has not stopped dreamy outpourings of joy.

One of her supporters, Daw Nyo, 89, beamed as she described her affection for
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi.

''She is like a daughter to me,'' she said. ''I want to see her save this
country.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/asia/myanmar-election-results-aung-san-s
uu-kyi.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Supporters of the National League for Democracy celebrated at
the party's headquarters in Yangon on Monday as a giant screen showed Daw Aung
San Suu Kyi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROMEO GACAD/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 A downpour in Yangon on Monday did not discourage opposition supporters. A
National League for Democracy official said the party had received 70 percent of
the vote nationwide. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM DEAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT
(90%); DICTATORSHIPS (89%); POLITICS (89%); MILITARY RULE (78%); ELECTIONS
(78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ARRESTS (70%);
HOUSE ARREST (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%)

CITY: YANGON, MYANMAR (94%)

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Elder Cruz's Fight for Castro Is Questioned by Cuban Peers

BYLINE: By JASON HOROWITZ; Hannah Berkeley Cohen contributed reporting from
Havana. Kitty Bennett contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2158 words


MATANZAS, Cuba -- Since he was a boy, Senator Ted Cruz has said, all he wanted
to do was ''fight for liberty'' -- a yearning that he says was first kindled
when he heard his father's tales of fighting as a rebel leader in Cuba in the
1950s, throwing firebombs, running guns and surviving torture.

Those stories, retold by Mr. Cruz and by his father, Rafael, have hooked
Republican audiences and given emotional power to the message that the Texas
senator is pushing as a contender for the party's presidential nomination. In
their telling, the father's experience in Cuba -- when the country was swept up
by the charismatic young Fidel Castro, only to see him become a repressive
Communist dictator -- becomes a parable for the son's nightmarish vision of
government overreach under President Obama.

But the family narrative that has provided such inspirational fire to Mr. Cruz's
speeches, debate performances and a recently published memoir is, his father's
Cuban contemporaries say, an embroidered one.

The elder Mr. Cruz, 76, recalls a vivid moment at a watershed 1956 battle in
Santiago de Cuba, when he was with a hero of the revolution, Frank País, just
hours before he was killed in combat.

In fact, Mr. País was killed seven months later and in a different place and
manner.

In interviews, Rafael Cruz's former comrades and friends disputed his
description of his role in the Cuban resistance. He was a teenager who wrote on
walls and marched in the streets, they said -- not a rebel leader running guns
or blowing up buildings.

Leonor Arestuche, 79, a student leader in the '50s whom the Castro government
later hired to verify the supposed exploits of revolutionary veterans, said a
term existed for people like Mr. Cruz -- ''ojalateros,'' or wishful thinkers.
''People wishing and praying that Batista would fall,'' she said, ''but not
doing much to act on it.''

There is no question that Rafael Cruz, who is now a pastor and his son's most
effective and popular campaign surrogate, was beaten in 1957 at the hands of
agents for Fulgencio Batista, the Cuban dictator.

An old neighbor remembers soldiers bloodying the 18-year-old Mr. Cruz's face and
driving off with him that summer. Mr. Cruz gives a harrowing account of soldiers
beating him over three or four days, stomping on the back of his head and
breaking his teeth. A mug shot in his son's book shows him with a bruised nose,
and a 1959 article in The Daily Texan, the student newspaper at the University
of Texas at Austin, which he attended after fleeing to the United States,
reported he had lost ''half of his upper denture'' in the beatings.

The reason Mr. Cruz was arrested, however, is less clear, and he has offered
different explanations. In an interview alongside his son in March, Mr. Cruz
said he had sought to recruit to the revolutionary cause someone who turned out
to be an informant working for Batista's regime. The 1959 account, though, did
not mention any informant; Rafael Cruz said then that the authorities were
alerted to his involvement in the resistance by another man, who gave up only
Mr. Cruz's name after Batista's forces beat it out of him and left him bleeding
in the same cell as Mr. Cruz.

Mario Martínez, who Mr. Cruz confirmed was part of his small revolutionary cell,
said he did not recall Mr. Cruz's being apprehended for trying to recruit
someone and said he believed that the cause of his old comrade's detainment was
possession of a revolver -- one that Mr. Cruz had never used.

Mr. Martínez declined to be directly interviewed and relayed answers to
questions posed by The New York Times about Mr. Cruz through Ms. Arestuche.
According to Mr. Martínez's account, he and Mr. Cruz had belonged to the youth
brigade of Mr. Castro's 26th of July Movement in their hometown, Matanzas, but
had done little besides join in protest marches. They never turned to violence,
he said.

The fog of almost 60 years can cloud even the clearest of memories, and it is
possible that witnesses who can back up Mr. Cruz's account might exist and come
forward. But none of the Cuban historians, former comrades of Mr. Cruz in his
hometown or veterans of the Santiago battle reached by The Times could
corroborate his story.

Approached in Marietta, Ohio, on Oct. 13, between wooing campaign donors and
headlining a Republican dinner, Mr. Cruz was unable to provide the name of any
participant from the Santiago assault. ''I mean, we were scattered,'' he said,
adding, ''I was with one other guy at a little coffee place or something like
that, and I don't remember his name.''

Unlike some other American presidential candidates, Ted Cruz remains largely
unknown in Cuba, and most of the people interviewed for this article had never
heard of him. But the Cruz campaign rejected those who disputed Rafael Cruz's
version of events as politically motivated.

''To repeat statements from Communist officials in Castro's Cuba regarding
events from nearly 60 years ago as truth is irresponsible reporting and simply
has no basis in truth,'' Catherine Frazier, a campaign spokeswoman, said in a
statement. ''For the Batista soldiers who tortured and imprisoned Pastor Rafael
Cruz, there was no such confusion.''

A Misplaced Memory

Ted Cruz's origin story begins in Matanzas, a quiet seaside town where his
father grew up along a dirt road shaded with plantain trees, and fished with a
line that carved notches into his fingers.

The son of a salesman and a teacher, Rafael Bienvenido Cruz y Díaz wore parted
hair and round tortoiseshell glasses at the Arturo Echemendia primary school, an
exclusive school in Matanzas with 15-foot wooden doors. At 12, he placed into
the town's private high school. He earned good grades, except in Cuban history,
with which he struggled.

Instead, he says, he lived it.

His schoolmates had nicknamed him El Flaco -- the skinny one. But his comrades
gave him a code name: Cuatro Ojos. Four Eyes. Within two or three years of the
1952 coup that brought Batista, a former president, back to power, Mr. Cruz
says, he was participating in street protests and marches against the
dictatorship -- ''which were normally met with billy clubs.''

Yet the real action in Cuba was 500 miles east, in Santiago, where Mr. País, a
charismatic, mustachioed 21-year-old, was leading a clandestine sabotage
campaign and building toward a major armed uprising in the city, planned to
coincide with the expected return of Mr. Castro from Mexico on Nov. 30, 1956.

The assault, known simply by its date, was a failure: Mr. Castro's boat full of
rebels arrived two days late, and the operation quickly fizzled. But it became a
landmark moment in Cuban history. The Museum of the Revolution in Havana
preserves the trousers and spectacles of participating rebels behind glass.

Mr. Cruz was one of them, he said in the interview. He had enrolled in September
1956 at the university in Santiago. There, he said, ''I became involved with the
Castro group.''

''I knew Frank País personally and I saw him 12 hours before he was killed,''
Mr. Cruz has said in speeches.

In the interview, he said he was part of a group of young rebels held in
reserve, waiting to receive weapons. When the Castro boat did not show, they
were told to ''scram,'' he said.

But veterans of the operation questioned Rafael Cruz's account of his
involvement.

Luís Clergé, who prides himself on knowing the names of the commandos he served
with in the Nov. 30 operation, had no memory of Mr. Cruz.

Mr. Cruz's name also drew blanks from Luís Solá Vila, a leader of the Federación
Estudiantil Universitaria, a campus-based activist group in Santiago, and Luís
Gálvez Taupier, a university leader who worked closely with the movement's youth
brigades, among others.

''I don't remember meeting Rafael Cruz,'' said Agustín País, Frank's brother,
who now lives in Miami.

In the March interview, Mr. Cruz -- coaxed by his son the candidate -- described
the Nov. 30 uprising.

''And País was killed there,'' Ted Cruz interjected.

''Yes,'' said his father.

Told that Mr. País had been executed the next year, in a different place, and
that this had been amply documented, Rafael Cruz brushed off the mistake: ''I
don't remember where País was killed,'' he said.

In his book ''A Time for Truth,'' published in June, Ted Cruz writes that the
rebels who attacked the Santiago Police Headquarters met devastating resistance,
and ''All of the students were killed, as was their leader, Frank País.''

But of the scores of rebels who participated in the attack, only a few were
killed, according to eyewitness accounts and historical documents.

Rafael Cruz did not defend his exaggeration of the number of rebels killed in
the Nov. 30 uprising. ''I mean, I left within a couple of days of that,'' he
said. ''We left town.''

Conflicting Accounts

All of the unrest in Santiago de Cuba led the Batista government to close the
university there, and Mr. Cruz returned to Matanzas, on the north coast, where
he says he began leading his old cell and running weapons. In Ted Cruz's book,
he graduated to saboteur, disrupting transportation and communications
infrastructure throughout the province.

''Yes, I know him,'' said Liborio Vera Andreu, 79, a schoolmate and leader in
the youth brigades in Matanzas. But he said Mr. Cruz's involvement had been
limited to participating ''in strikes and in protests.''

Asked on different occasions, Mr. Cruz was unable to name any specific acts of
sabotage he carried out. He spoke of throwing Molotov cocktails, but could not
name any targets.

What is certain is that in the summer of 1957, Mr. Cruz did something to catch
the attention of Batista's enforcers, who patrolled on horseback.

Carmen García, a neighbor, recalled learning that a Jeep full of Batista
soldiers had picked up Mr. Cruz. ''No one knew he was supposedly conspiring
against anything,'' she said.

Although Mr. Cruz has said he made the near-fatal error of trying to recruit an
informant to the resistance, Jesus Trujillo Tundidor, a childhood friend who
also supported Castro, echoed Mr. Martínez in saying that he recalled Mr. Cruz's
being arrested for possession of a pistol.

Mr. Cruz did little to resolve the conflicting accounts. ''There was a gun
involved,'' he said, ''and I recall that the informant who turned me in knew
that I had it.''

Approached in Ohio, Mr. Cruz was asked to clarify the reason for his 1957
arrest. ''I'll have to think about it,'' he said. ''I don't quite remember.'' He
offered to be interviewed again at an event that night, but instead had a
reporter ejected from it.

Whatever the reason for his detainment, Mr. Cruz said he was taken to San
Severino castle, where a dank torture cell still inspires dread among locals. In
a joint interview in March, Ted Cruz said his father first told him of his
brutalization in Cuba after they watched the torture scenes in the movie
''Rambo'' together.

Now a pastor and Tea Party celebrity, Rafael Cruz is his son's best campaign
surrogate, delighting conservatives and infuriating liberals by divining Satan's
handiwork in the legalization of same-sex marriage, questioning Mr. Obama's
citizenship and recalling that Mr. Castro, too, started out as a leader
''talking about hope and change.''

Rafael Cruz said in the joint interview that he got out of the jail after his
father successfully pleaded for his release. Records in Matanzas show his father
scrambled to help his son apply to the University of Texas, writing to his high
school administrators for a copy of his transcript and enclosing return postage.

Mr. Cruz quickly obtained a passport, which was ''a work of art,'' because his
battered face required so much retouching that ''I looked like a movie star,''
he said in March. Ted Cruz, listening raptly, said he wanted to see the passport
himself, and offered to provide a copy. But his campaign later refused.

Rafael Cruz's Cuban saga ends with him hidden in the back seat of his father's
car in late 1957 as they drove along the coast to Havana, where he boarded a
ferry and sailed to Miami, before continuing on to Austin. Since then, his
native island has existed for his family as a remote but enduring political
reference point.

''I have no desire to go to Cuba,'' Mr. Cruz said in the March interview.

''Well, I'll jump in and say I have a desire to, someday,'' said Senator Cruz.
''I'd love to go with my father,'' he said, once its oppressive rule is a thing
of the past.

If they went now, they would see Rafael Cruz's beachfront home, since
redistributed to another family. They would see his father's old electronics
store, where a ''Revolution'' sign hangs over racks of cheap clothes. And they
would see his elementary school, where third graders file into a classroom named
in honor of Frank País.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/politics/cuban-peers-dispute-ted-cruzs-fath
ers-story-of-fighting-for-castro.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The school records of Rafael Cruz, the father of Senator Ted
Cruz, from 1954, when he was about 15. Mr. Cruz and his son, at left in Iowa
last week, have inspired Republican audiences with stories of his life in Cuba.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK KAUZLARICH/REUTERS
LISETTE POOLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Left, Leonor Arestuche, a woman who verified the accounts of revolutionary
veterans, referred to Rafael Cruz as a wishful thinker. Mr. Cruz grew up in
Matanzas, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LISETTE POOLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT
(89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DICTATORSHIPS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES
(78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%);
BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (67%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (67%)

PERSON: TED CRUZ (94%); FIDEL CASTRO (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A $10 Million Push for Automatic Voter Registration

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1031 words


WASHINGTON --  As Republicans across the country mount an aggressive effort to
tighten voting laws, a group of former aides to President Obama and President
Bill Clinton is pledging to counter by spending up to $10 million on a push to
make voter registration automatic whenever someone gets a driver's license.

The change would supercharge the 1993 National Voter Registration Act, known as
the ''motor voter'' law, which requires states to offer people the option of
registering to vote when they apply for driver's licenses or other
identification cards. The new laws would make registration automatic during
those transactions unless a driver objected.

The group, called iVote, is led by Jeremy Bird, who ran Mr. Obama's voter
turnout effort in 2012. It is betting that such laws could bring out millions of
new voters who have, for whatever reason, failed to register even when they had
the opportunity at motor vehicle departments.

Many of those new voters would be young, poor or minorities -- groups that tend
to support Democratic candidates, Mr. Bird said.

''I do think it can be a complete game-changer,'' he said. ''It's definitely
countering what we see as a very organized and well-funded effort by the
Republican Party across the country to chip away at voting rights.''

In the two years since the Supreme Court struck down critical parts of the 1965
Voting Rights Act, Republicans in several states have moved to shut down early
voting, require identification at the polls and cull voter rolls in what they
say is an effort to combat fraud.

That campaign has forced Democrats to try to block the efforts in state
legislatures, many of which are controlled by Republicans, or fight them in
court after they pass.

With both houses of Congress in Republican hands, the push for automatic voter
registration is starting in the states. Oregon enacted the first such law this
spring, and California passed a similar measure last month.

In California, nearly six million people who have driver's licenses are not
registered to vote, said Alex Padilla, the secretary of state and a Democrat. He
said the new law, which aims to eliminate that discrepancy, was ''good for
democracy'' and added, ''It's more effective and efficient.''

Under automatic voter registration, a teenage driver too young to vote would
immediately become registered when he or she turned 18.

Craig T. Smith, who was the political director in Mr. Clinton's White House and
is advising iVote, said legislation to enact automatic voter registration was
pending in 17 states. The group is hoping to help push through as many of those
bills as possible next year.

The group also plans to begin a petition drive in Ohio to put automatic
registration on the ballot next November. And it is exploring the possibility of
ballot measures in Colorado, Florida and Nevada.

''The right to vote has come under siege,'' Mr. Smith said. ''Part of this is to
retake the momentum, to make it easier to vote.''

But the effort will not be easy. Republicans control 30 state legislatures, and
as of January, 32 states will have Republican governors. Any push for automatic
registration in those states is certain to meet stiff resistance.

In addition, new laws are unlikely to be enacted in time for automatic
registration to be put in place for the 2016 election.

Kris W. Kobach, the secretary of state in Kansas and a Republican, who has been
a leading advocate of stricter voting laws, said he opposed automatic
registration because people who chose not to register were clearly not
interested in voting.

''The assumption that by making what is already easy automatic that will somehow
bring people to the polls is just erroneous,'' Mr. Kobach said. ''I just think
it's a bad idea. It's not going to increase participation rates.''

Mr. Kobach has pushed for some of the nation's most restrictive voting laws,
including one that requires proof of citizenship. He said automatic registration
would make that kind of check impossible.

''You're going to end up with aliens on the voter rolls,'' Mr. Kobach said.
''It's inevitable that an automatic registration system would result in many of
them getting on.''

Democrats have criticized the Republican efforts as an assault on voters'
rights. Eric H. Holder Jr., Mr. Obama's first attorney general, said in March
that ''it has been clear in recent years that fair and free access to the
franchise is still, in some areas, under siege.'' In August, Mr. Obama wrote in
a letter to The New York Times that ''our state leaders and legislatures must
make it easier -- not harder -- for more Americans to have their voices heard.''

The effort by iVote is the first major push to counter the Republican moves with
a legislative strategy to expand voter rights.

Pete Giangreco, who was a top direct mail and media consultant for Mr. Obama's
presidential campaigns, said Republicans opposed automatic registration because
they wanted to discourage Democratic-leaning citizens from casting ballots.

''They don't want people to vote,'' Mr. Giangreco said. ''They've gotten very,
very good at using technicalities, at disenfranchising individuals -- young,
immobile, poor, people of color. And those are people that tend to vote
Democratic.''

Mr. Giangreco dismissed the criticisms from Mr. Kobach. Motor vehicle
departments already prevent noncitizens from registering to vote by obtaining
citizenship information from government databases, he said, and under the
existing systems, many people who have failed to register could change their
minds as an election nears.

He pointed to a recent study by Oxford Journals that looked at people who
searched Google for voter registration information even though their deadlines
had passed. The study estimated that up to four million unregistered people in
the United States appeared to want to vote after all.

''We win two ways'' if automatic registration is enacted, Mr. Giangreco said.
''We think more turnout is better for democracy in general -- and Democrats in
particular.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/politics/democratic-group-called-ivote-push
es-automatic-voter-registration.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A line at a motor vehicles office in San Francisco. California
will join Oregon in automatically registering new drivers as voters. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (95%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES
(90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTION LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%);
LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US
DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DRIVERS LICENSES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR
(78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT
(78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); PETITIONS (73%); MINORITY GROUPS (67%); SUPREME COURTS
(64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (88%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Volkswagen to Initiate Talks With Labor on Cost-Cutting

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and JAD MOUAWAD; Barry Meier contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1261 words


Volkswagen said on Monday that it would begin talks with worker representatives
about how to cut costs, in the latest sign that the company's crisis over
cheating on emissions tests is taking a heavy toll.

Separately, the German automaker said it would offer up to $1,000 to owners of
diesel cars in the United States affected by the scandal. Some critics quickly
called the gesture inadequate.

Monday's carefully worded statement on cost-cutting does not mention layoffs,
but nevertheless raises the specter of job reductions at a company with some
614,000 employees, nearly twice as many as Toyota, which produces roughly the
same number of vehicles. ''In the present difficult situation we must jointly
make decisions that factor in economics just as much as employment,'' Matthias
Müller, the chief executive of Volkswagen, said in the joint statement with the
company's labor leadership.

The combined statement with Bernd Osterloh, the powerful head of the Volkswagen
works council, was intended as a show of solidarity between the two sides. There
have been signs of tension between Mr. Müller and labor leaders, which is
unusual at Volkswagen.

In a letter to employees on Friday, Mr. Osterloh complained that top executives
had no clear strategy for addressing the emissions crisis. He also accused
Volkswagen managers of making proposals to cut costs without consulting worker
representatives. That is taboo at Volkswagen, where according to a special law,
workers have veto power over decisions to move or close factories.

Partly for reasons like these, open disputes between labor and management are
practically unheard-of. On the contrary, the two groups have been accused of
being too close, as in 2007 when high-ranking company executives were accused of
paying bribes to worker representatives and financing trips abroad that included
the services of prostitutes. A former member of Volkswagen's management board
was convicted of bribing top labor representatives, though charges that he had
used company funds to pay for prostitutes were dropped. He received a suspended
sentence.

While manufacturers in the United States have typically tried to keep unions out
of factories, Volkswagen encouraged the United Automobile Workers to organize
its plant in Chattanooga, Tenn., over the objections of local political leaders.

''The work force will stand behind the company,'' Mr. Osterloh said in his
Monday joint statement with Mr. Müller. But he also said that the support of
workers was conditional on ''agreeing on a balanced package of investments,
economy measures and forward-looking projects.''

The company said in September that 11 million cars, including about 500,000 in
the United States, were rigged to produce artificially low emissions readings
when being tested. Then, last week, Volkswagen said that it underreported
carbon-dioxide emissions for 800,000 cars in Europe and exaggerated their fuel
economy. Volkswagen must now repair the vehicles to make them compliant with
emissions limits and repay tax breaks that its customers received from European
countries.

Volkswagen has already allocated nearly 9 billion euros to cover costs stemming
from deceiving regulators and customers. That figure does not include future
fines that Volkswagen may be required to pay to national authorities or legal
judgments from the hundreds of lawsuits filed by disgruntled customers. Nor does
it include other financial fallout, like lost sales.

Because of the financial toll, Fitch Ratings said on Monday that it lowered its
view of Volkswagen's creditworthiness. If other ratings agencies follow suit,
the company will have to pay higher interest rates to borrow money.

The offer of up to $1,000 in compensation will be applicable to owners and
lessees of 2-liter TDI models affected by the problem in the United States, the
company said. The customers would be eligible for a $500 cash card to spend as
they wish and another $500 to spend at Volkswagen dealerships, and free 24-hour
roadside assistance for three years.

Car owners who accept the offer will not be asked to waive future rights to sue
or claim other compensation, a Volkswagen spokeswoman said.

Volkswagen has already promised to make changes to cars so they comply with
emissions limits. The repairs are likely to be costly and complicated, and
Volkswagen has not said how they will be carried out.

Cars with illegal software include the diesel Volkswagen Golf, Jetta, Beetle and
Passat and the diesel Audi A3 sold since the 2009 model year. Volkswagen has
already offered cash incentives to owners if they buy or lease a new car, as
well as big discounts for new buyers at dealerships.

It is unclear whether the offer will be enough to assuage Volkswagen drivers who
have expressed anger at the company's actions. ''So basically VW is offering a
$500 gift for the fraud it perpetrated on me,'' said Elizabeth Humstone, the
owner of a 2011 Volkswagen Jetta who lives in Charlotte, Vt., and the chairwoman
of the Vermont Natural Resources Council, an environmental group. She said she
considered the offer insufficient, saying she was still stuck with a car ''I no
longer want to drive.''

Volkswagen, which called the offer a ''good-will package,'' also came under
criticism from two lawmakers. In a joint statement, Senators Richard Blumenthal,
Democrat of Connecticut, and Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, called
the offer ''insultingly inadequate'' and a ''fig leaf attempting to hide the
true depths of Volkswagen's deception.''

The lawmakers said Volkswagen should offer car owners a buyback option if they
wanted to get rid of their cars, or a compensation for the loss of resale value,
fuel economy and other damages.

Jack R. Nerad of Kelley Blue Book, an auto research organization, said there was
a precedent for payments like these. A few years ago, he pointed out, Hyundai
agreed to pay a lump sum of $353 to car owners after it admitted to inflating
the mileage on some of its models.

The Volkswagen offer does not extend to 3-liter Volkswagen, Audi and Porsche
models that the Environmental Protection Agency had recently said were also
equipped with illegal software. Volkswagen has denied that the software in those
cars was designed to cheat on emissions tests.

Volkswagen is at the center of multiple investigations in the United States and
Europe over the emissions-testing fraud. In the United States, the company faces
lawsuits from owners seeking compensation for the decreased resale value of
vehicles that were equipped with the illegal software.

As Volkswagen contends with the crisis, any job reductions will be particularly
tricky to achieve because of the strong voice that worker representatives have
in management decisions. Worker representatives hold half of the 20 seats on the
supervisory board, in line with laws that apply to all large companies. In
addition, the German state of Lower Saxony, where Volkswagen is based, has
another two seats on the board and generally votes with labor. That means no
major decision can be made without worker support.

As a result, Volkswagen is likely to do everything possible to avoid forced
layoffs of permanent workers. The company could, for example, reduce use of
temporary workers, who under German laws have fewer protections against being
fired.

In addition, Volkswagen could shorten the number of hours worked. In the early
1990s, when a slump in auto sales pushed the company close to bankruptcy,
Volkswagen introduced a four-day workweek rather than lay off workers.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/international/volkswagen-offers-1000-
to-diesel-owners.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); VEHICLE INSPECTIONS (90%);
VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%);
MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%);
AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); LABOR FORCE
(78%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION
(77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); BRIBERY (70%); VETO (64%);
SENTENCING (62%); PROSTITUTION (62%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%)

PERSON: MATTHIAS MULLER (79%)

CITY: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (52%)

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gov. Christie Doesn't Want Your Vote

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 474 words


New Jersey's voter-turnout rate is among the lowest in the country. During the
2014 midterm elections, 30.4 percent of the state's eligible voters went to the
polls. Last week, only 21 percent of voters came out -- the worst showing for a
general election in state history.

That's a big reason state lawmakers in June passed the New Jersey Democracy Act
-- a bill that would make voting easier by, among other things, expanding
early-voting opportunities, introducing online registration and, perhaps most
significant, automatically registering eligible voters when they get a driver's
license, unless they decline.

Automatic registration, which has already passed this year in Oregon and
California, could register many of the approximately 1.6 million eligible New
Jerseyans who are not currently on the voter rolls.

It is hard to see how anyone could disagree with making it easier for more
citizens to vote, but Gov. Chris Christie found a way. On Monday, Mr. Christie,
whose 2013 re-election set a state record for the lowest turnout in a race for
governor, vetoed the bill on the grounds that it would cost too much, that
residents already have plenty of ways to register and that automatic
registration would encourage that boogeyman of modern Republican politics --
voter fraud.

Like other politicians who rely on this tired claim, Mr. Christie, who is
running for the Republican presidential nomination, has not presented any actual
evidence of fraud. That's because there isn't any. To the contrary, electronic
and online registration decrease opportunities for fraud by generating more
accurate and updated voter lists.

There are costs to enacting some of these measures, but as other states have
already found, they are more than offset by the long-term savings that follow.

New Jerseyans, who support the reform package by wide margins, may get a chance
to approve it directly next year as a question that supporters are considering
putting on the ballot.

In a statement on Monday, Mr. Christie mocked automatic registration as a
''government knows best'' approach that would somehow ''inconvenience'' citizens
who might not want to be registered at all.

''I don't think that people ought to be automatically registered to vote,'' Mr.
Christie said on his monthly radio show in June. ''Is it really too much to ask
to ask someone to fill out a form?''

Of course, anyone applying for a license is already doing that. One would think
champions of small-government solutions like Mr. Christie would be thrilled at
the idea of eliminating unnecessary paperwork and improving the accuracy of
voter rolls at the same time.

But Mr. Christie, who previously vetoed another effort to expand early-voting
opportunities in 2013, seems persuaded, as many other Republicans are, that the
party's odds are better when fewer Americans vote.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/opinion/gov-christie-doesnt-want-your-vote.htm
l

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (94%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); US
REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (90%); VETO (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); APPROVALS (76%);
POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (70%); DRIVERS LICENSES (70%)

PERSON: CHRIS CHRISTIE (79%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Egypt's Brazen Crackdown on Critics

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 514 words


On Sunday, Hossam Bahgat, a soft-spoken human rights activist and journalist,
was  summoned to an Egyptian military intelligence office in Cairo. These
meetings have long terrified government critics in Egypt because they often lead
to a descent into the country's perverse justice system.

Mr. Bahgat spent the night in custody. Prosecutors told his lawyers on Monday
that he would remain locked up for at least four more days while officials
decide whether he will be tried for publishing information that supposedly
threatened national security.

The arbitrary detention of civilians in Egypt, and their prosecution in military
courts, have become appallingly routine in recent years as the government has
cracked down on all forms of dissent under the guise of fighting terrorism. Yet
there is something particularly disturbing about Mr. Bahgat's detention and the
prospect that he could be prosecuted in a military tribunal. By taking on an
important and well-known figure in the international human rights community,
President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi's government signals a formidable appetite for
repression and none for criticism.

In another ominous development on Sunday, the authorities arrested Salah Diab,
the founder and owner of Al Masry Al Youm, a newspaper that has published
critical reports about the government. State media reported that Mr. Diab is
being investigated for possible corruption.

Viewing its alliance with Egypt as too crucial to fail, the Obama administration
has done too little to confront the Sisi government's expanding
authoritarianism. Congress has continued to award Egypt $1.3 billion in military
aid each year, despite ample evidence that its armed forces commit human rights
abuses with impunity. The Obama administration and other Western governments
have sought to nudge the Egyptian government to protect civil liberties with
gentle public admonishments.

That approach is clearly not working. Egypt desperately needs international
investment and deeply values its military relationship with the United States.
Trade and military aid should be conditioned on clear signs that the government
will respect freedom of expression and what's left of the country's civil
society.

In 2002, Mr. Bahgat founded the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights, a
pioneering human rights organization that documented the twists and turns of a
tumultuous era that began with the popular uprising that ousted President Hosni
Mubarak in early 2011. Mr. Bahgat's organization has conducted reporting in a
country where human rights activists operate in a legal vacuum. It asked tough
questions and all too often found unpleasant truths. Last month, Mr. Bahgat
published a story in the independent news organization Mada Masr about the
semi-secret prosecution of 26 military officers for supposedly plotting to
overthrow Mr. Sisi's government.

Mr. Bahgat has always been cleareyed about the risks of his line of work. But
that has never stopped him. A jail cell probably could, for a while, if world
leaders continue to respond to Egypt's abuses with a shrug.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/opinion/egypts-brazen-crackdown-on-critics.htm
l

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CRISTIANA COUCEIRO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); MILITARY COURTS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%);
WRITERS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS
VIOLATIONS (89%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE
(88%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH
(78%); CORRUPTION (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (78%);
INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); ARRESTS (76%); COUPS
(74%); LAWYERS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); FREEDOM
OF EXPRESSION (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); TERRORISM
(54%)

PERSON: ABDEL FATTAH EL-SISSI (79%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (88%)

COUNTRY: EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Rebuke to India's Prime Minister

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 654 words


During a national election in India last year, Narendra Modi promised
''development for all.'' As prime minister, he has yet to deliver big economic
improvements, but in the meantime, members of his government and political party
have shredded his promise of inclusion by inflaming sectarian tensions. Now,
voters in the country's third most populous state have sent Mr. Modi a message:
Put an end to the hatemongering.

Poisoning politics with religious hatred is bound to squander the country's
economic potential at a time when India should be playing a bigger and more
constructive role in South Asia and the world. India's history is filled with
examples of religious and caste-based violence that set the country back. Those
conflicts subsided during India's rapid economic growth, but many Indians now
fear a resurgence.

On Sunday, Mr. Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party lost a legislative election
in the northern state of Bihar, which has a population of more than 100 million.
A ''grand alliance'' of secular parties united by their antipathy to the Hindu
nationalist B.J.P. won 178 constituencies in the 243-member legislative assembly
to the B.J.P.'s 53. Many political analysts see the loss as a repudiation of Mr.
Modi because he and his top aides campaigned vigorously in the state and many
ads carried his image, rather than photos of local politicians.

In the months leading up to the Bihar election, hard-liners in the B.J.P. and
organizations affiliated with the party stoked India's long-simmering sectarian
tensions. The party's lawmakers pushed for beef bans around the country
ostensibly to protect the cow, which many Hindus consider holy, but really as a
ploy to divide Hindus and Muslims, some of whom eat beef.

Mobs riled by the anti-beef crusade have killed four Muslims suspected of
slaughtering, stealing or smuggling cows in the last seven weeks. And in August,
unidentified attackers shot and killed Malleshappa Madivalappa Kalburgi, a
scholar and vocal critic of Hindu idolatry. Hundreds of writers, filmmakers and
academics have protested the growing intolerance by returning awards they
received from the government-supported bodies.

Mr. Modi has not forcefully condemned the beef-related killings, despite pleas
by Muslims and other minorities. He has tolerated hateful and insensitive
remarks by his ministers and by B.J.P. officials.

During a campaign stop in Bihar, Mr. Modi tried to exploit sectarian divisions
by telling voters that the secular alliance would reduce affirmative action
benefits for lower-caste Hindus and tribes in favor of ''a particular
community'' -- an apparent reference to Muslims. And the president of the
B.J.P., Amit Shah, one of Mr. Modi's closest advisers, told voters that a
victory for the alliance would be celebrated in Pakistan, the Muslim-majority
neighbor that has fought several wars with India since 1947.

Voters in Bihar saw through the B.J.P.'s attempts to divide them. They, like
most Indians, are looking for leaders who will improve their standard of living.
Bihar is one of the poorest states in India but has grown fast in the last 10
years under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who is credited for
cracking down on crime, building roads and increasing the enrollment of girls in
schools.

Mr. Modi and the B.J.P. secured a majority in the lower house of Parliament last
year with promises of economic reforms. Now, to push through those reforms, the
party needs to win the control of the upper house, which is elected by state
assemblies. It won't win those elections unless Mr. Modi gets rid of the
officials in his government and party who are fueling sectarian culture wars.

Meanwhile, there are things Mr. Modi could do administratively to improve the
economy, like investing in education and health care and building
infrastructure. Voters in Bihar have sent the B.J.P. a clear message. Mr. Modi
should heed it.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/opinion/a-rebuke-to-indias-prime-minister-nare
ndra-modi.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CAMPAIGNS &
ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE &
GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HINDUS &
HINDUISM (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BEEF (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MINORITY GROUPS (76%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION (76%);
ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); SHOOTINGS (69%); MEATS (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%);
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%)

PERSON: NARENDRA MODI (92%)

STATE: BIHAR, INDIA (93%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (95%); PAKISTAN (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Classified Report on the C.I.A.'s Secret Prisons Is Caught in Limbo

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI and MATT APUZZO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words


WASHINGTON -- A Senate security officer stepped out of the December chill last
year and delivered envelopes marked ''Top Secret'' to the Pentagon, the C.I.A.,
the State Department and the Justice Department. Inside each packet was a disc
containing a 6,700-page classified report on the C.I.A.'s secret prison program
and a letter from Senator Dianne Feinstein, urging officials to read the report
to ensure that the lessons were not lost to time.

Today, those discs sit untouched in vaults across Washington, still in their
original envelopes. The F.B.I. has not retrieved a copy held for it in the
Justice Department's safe. State Department officials, who locked up their copy
and marked it ''Congressional Record -- Do Not Open, Do Not Access'' as soon as
it arrived, have not read it either.

Nearly a year after the Senate released a declassified 500-page summary of the
report, the fate of the entire document remains in limbo, the subject of battles
in the courts and in Congress. Until those disputes are resolved, the Justice
Department has prohibited officials from the government agencies that possess it
from even opening the report, effectively keeping the people in charge of
America's counterterrorism future from reading about its past. There is also the
possibility that the documents could remain locked in a Senate vault for good.

In a letter to Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch last week, Ms. Feinstein, a
California Democrat, said the Justice Department was preventing the government
from ''learning from the mistakes of the past to ensure that they are not
repeated.''

Although Ms. Feinstein is eager to see the document circulated, the Senate is
now under Republican control. Her successor as head of the Intelligence
Committee, Senator Richard M. Burr of North Carolina, has demanded that the
Obama administration return every copy of the report. Mr. Burr has declared the
report to be nothing more than ''a footnote in history.''

It was always clear that the full report would remain shielded from public view
for years, if not decades. But Mr. Burr's demand, which means that even
officials with top security clearances might never read it, has reminded some
officials of the final scene of ''Raiders of the Lost Ark,'' when the Ark of the
Covenant is put into a wooden crate alongside thousands of others in a
government warehouse of secrets.

The report tells the story of how, in the months after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks, the C.I.A. began capturing people and interrogating them in
secret prisons beyond the reach of the American judicial and military legal
systems. The report's central conclusion is that the spy agency's interrogation
methods -- including waterboarding, sleep deprivation and other kinds of torture
-- were far more brutal and far less effective than the C.I.A. acknowledged to
policy makers, Congress and the public.

For now, it is the most comprehensive chronicle of one of the most controversial
counterterrorism programs after the Sept. 11 attacks.

The American Civil Liberties Union has sued the C.I.A. for access to the
document, and at this point the case hinges on who owns it. Senate documents are
exempt from public records laws, but executive branch records are not. In May, a
federal judge ruled that even though Ms. Feinstein distributed the report to the
executive branch, the document still belongs to Congress. That decision is under
appeal, with court papers due this month.

Justice Department officials defend their stance, saying that handling the
document at all could influence the outcome of the lawsuit. They said that a
State Department official who opened the report, read it and summarized it could
lead a judge to determine that the document was an executive branch record,
altering the lawsuit's outcome. The Justice Department has also promised not to
return the records to Mr. Burr until a judge settles the matter.

''It's quite bizarre, and I cannot think of a precedent,'' said Steven
Aftergood, the director of the Project on Government Secrecy at the Federation
of American Scientists. He said there are any number of classified Senate
documents that are shared with intelligence agencies and remain as congressional
records, even if they are read by members of the executive branch.

The findings of the report on the secret prisons remain the subject of fierce
debate. A group of former senior C.I.A. officers published a book in September
challenging its conclusions and methodology, and Senate Republicans have derided
the investigation as shoddy and partisan.

John O. Brennan, the C.I.A. director, said at a conference last month that the
report contained ''many, many mischaracterizations'' of the spy agency's work in
the years after the Sept. 11 attacks. He said that while it focused on ''some of
the real shortcomings'' of the detention program, ''it did not take into account
the tremendous sacrifice and service of some C.I.A. officers in keeping this
country safe.''

The full report is not expected to offer evidence of previously undisclosed
interrogation techniques, but the interrogation sessions are said to be
described in great detail. The report explains the origins of the program and
names the officials involved. The full report also offers details on the role of
each agency in the secret prison program.

The Justice Department, which played a central role in approving the
interrogation methods, has even prohibited its own officials from reading the
full report.

''The Department of Justice was among those parts of the executive branch that
were misled about the program, and D.O.J. officials' understanding of this
history is critical to its institutional role going forward,'' Ms. Feinstein
wrote to the Justice Department last week in a letter she signed with Senator
Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee.

In court, Justice Department lawyers have agreed with Mr. Burr's contention that
the document belongs to Congress. As evidence, they point to an agreement
between the C.I.A. and the Senate as the Intelligence Committee began its
lengthy investigation. The Senate was under Democratic control at the time.

The agreement says that any ''documents, draft and final recommendations,
reports or other materials'' generated during the investigation are
congressional documents. ''As such these records are not C.I.A. records under
the Freedom of Information Act,'' the agreement says.

The A.C.L.U. argues that agreement was void once Ms. Feinstein sent the report
to the government agencies. Because she clearly intended the executive branch to
use the report, the A.C.L.U. contends, the committee gave up control of the
document.

If Mr. Burr were to succeed in getting copies of the report returned to the
Intelligence Committee, Mr. Aftergood said, he could slowly make it irrelevant.

''The longer that it's buried, the less relevant it becomes,'' he said.

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/politics/classified-report-on-the-cias-secr
et-prisons-is-caught-in-limbo.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, then the Senate
Intelligence Committee chairwoman, discussing a report by the committee last
December on the C.I.A.'s antiterrorism tactics. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA REUTERS) (A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CORRECTIONS (90%);
LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%);
SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ESPIONAGE (78%);
INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); LAWYERS (74%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); TERRORISM (70%); COUNTERTERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST
ATTACKS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

PERSON: DIANNE FEINSTEIN (89%); LORETTA LYNCH (74%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICHARD
BURR (58%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

With Russia's Political Opposition Marginalized, a Protest Artist Takes Up the
Cause

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 776 words


MOSCOW --  The artist's brush was a cigarette lighter, his paint a can of
gasoline and the canvas, as it has always been for Pyotr Pavlensky, a symbol of
the Russian state.

In the early hours of Monday morning, the performance artist best known for
nailing his scrotum to the cobblestones of Red Square set fire to an entrance to
the headquarters of Russia's Federal Security Service, the F.S.B.

The door to the building known as Lubyanka burst into flames, but quickly burned
out, apparently causing only slight charring.

Mr. Pavlensky, whose work smudges the boundaries between protest, art and
revolutionary activity, called the immolation on Monday ''Threat.'' His plans
apparently went undetected by the F.S.B., which like its predecessor, the
K.G.B., is responsible for surveillance of the Russian population to prevent
crimes and attacks.

The police charged Mr. Pavlensky, 31, a dropout from one of Russia's most
prestigious art academies, with vandalism, but left open the possibility of
additional criminal counts.

As the government of President Vladimir V. Putin has marginalized the political
opposition and co-opted or repressed independent media, protest art like Mr.
Pavlensky's remains a rare possibility for dissent, said Marat Guelman, a Moscow
art critic and gallery owner.

''Authoritarian regimes want classicism, but it transforms into kitsch, and
protests movements are more democratic in their influences,'' Mr. Guelman said.

''We don't need an artist as a decorator,'' he added, saying that artists like
Mr. Pavlensky maintain an important ''moral authority'' in Russia.

Mr. Pavlensky comes from a community of protest artists in St. Petersburg, the
most prominent of whom made up the art collective Voina, or War, which took aim
at what the artists saw as the neo-Soviet side of Mr. Putin's policies. Mr.
Pavlensky considers his work to be in the tradition of subversive street
artists, prominent in former Soviet politics, that include the punk protest
group Pussy Riot and other artists who played a pivotal role before the 2013
uprising in Ukraine.

There, the disrobing by members of the feminist group Femen in protest and
actions like frying an egg on the eternal flame in Kiev that memorializes
soldiers killed in World War II were part of the movement that helped oust the
government of Viktor F. Yanukovych, the former president. The events in Ukraine,
and the Kremlin's intervention there, including the annexation of Crimea, have
motivated some dissenting voices in Russia.

''Art is lucky in Russia,'' Mr. Guelman said. ''Art is again in the
avant-garde.''

Mr. Pavlensky, wiry and intense, is missing a quarter inch or so of his right
earlobe, having cut it off for an art piece. In 2013 he affixed his scrotum to a
crack in the cobblestones of Red Square in Moscow for a piece he called
''Fixation.''

In an interview with The New York Times this summer, he described his art as
consisting of two parts: his own action and the reaction of the government,
which he says tends only to emphasize his themes.

For example, last year, when he cut off part of his ear sitting naked on the
fence of the Serbsky Center, a psychiatric institute that repressed political
dissidents in the Soviet Union, he was, as expected, escorted by the police into
the building for evaluation.

The action on Red Square, he said, was inspired by Russian prisoners in remote
penal colonies where nailing one's scrotum to a bunk bed or the wooden planks of
a barracks floor is an established, if extreme, form of protest against the
actions of prison guards. Performing ''Fixation'' in the glittery, commercial
heart of contemporary Moscow was Mr. Pavlensky's commentary on the voluntary
submission of Russian men and likened Mr. Putin's rule to a penal colony.

''Sometimes, you pass a point of no return,'' he said of how he felt about this
performance, which like all of his actions, ended with his arrest. ''I nailed my
sack to the chink in the stones.''

He has also described his work as a way to act out the behavior that the
security state expects from its citizens.

That may well include posing a threat, the title of Monday's act, though Mr.
Pavlensky, still in detention hours later, did not comment publicly after
setting the door on fire.

''The Investigative Committee wants to demonstrate that I am crazy,'' he said in
the interview, referring to a powerful prosecutorial agency in Russia. ''And to
show their own craziness, I do what they want, but my way.''

Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: European Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/europe/russian-artist-sets-security-serv
ices-door-on-fire.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pyotr Pavlensky in Moscow on Monday after he set fire to a door
at the headquarters of the Federal Security Service, successor agency to the
K.G.B. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NIGINA BEROEVA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICS
(78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); STREET ART (78%); FIRES (76%); MUSEUMS &
GALLERIES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); WORLD WAR II
(62%); ARSON (56%); VANDALISM (54%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%)

PERSON: VIKTOR YANUKOVYCH (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%)

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG,
RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Allies Threaten Wave of Harsh Attacks on Rubio, an Ex-Protégé

BYLINE: By MAGGIE HABERMAN and MICHAEL BARBARO; Jonathan Martin contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1162 words


The cash-rich group aiding Jeb Bush's White House run has filmed a provocative
video casting his rival Marco Rubio as ultimately unelectable because of his
hard-line stand against abortion.

That group, which has raised more than $100 million, has asked voters in New
Hampshire how they feel about Mr. Rubio's skipping important votes in the
Senate.

And the group's chief strategist has boasted of his willingness to spend as much
as $20 million to damage Mr. Rubio's reputation and halt his sudden ascent in
the polls, according to three people told of the claim.

Seething with anger and alarmed over Mr. Rubio's rise, aides to Mr. Bush, the
former Florida governor, and his allies are privately threatening a wave of
scathing attacks on his former protégé in the coming weeks, in a sign of just
how anxious they have become about the state of Mr. Bush's candidacy.

Their looming problem: In trying to undercut Mr. Rubio as unaccomplished and
unprepared, Mr. Bush is a flawed messenger. Over the years he has repeatedly,
and sometimes lavishly, praised the younger lawmaker, often on camera.

In one of many such tributes, Mr. Bush declared in a 2012 television interview
that Mr. Rubio had ''the intellectual acumen and the fortitude to be a good
president.''

Whether or not the onslaught ever materializes, Mr. Rubio and his team are
bracing for it and preparing to counter it by sifting through hours of video
footage for instances in which Mr. Bush spoke about Mr. Rubio as an admiring
ally, not a political foe.

They are also telegraphing a warning that has already reached many of Mr. Bush's
donors: Such an assault, they argue, would be beneath the dignity of the Bush
name. And Mr. Bush should focus on resurrecting his own candidacy, they say, not
on trying to tear down Mr. Rubio, who they contend represents the future of the
Republican Party.

Some Bush donors, campaign aides and Republican operatives are cautioning Mr.
Bush and his staff about the dangers of seeking to wound Mr. Rubio, whose career
he assiduously nurtured for years when Mr. Bush was governor and Mr. Rubio was a
member of the Florida House of Representatives.

''Given their closeness while governing, I find the whole thing baffling,'' said
Stuart Stevens, a Republican strategist who oversaw Mitt Romney's 2012 campaign.

''I seem not to be alone,'' Mr. Stevens added. ''I don't see any evidence that
it's working.''

Some supporters of Mr. Bush are publicly urging restraint. ''At the end of the
day, wisdom dictates that an internecine fight between the two is unnecessary,
and potentially damaging to both,'' said Anthony Scaramucci, a New York
financier and Bush fund-raiser.

Mr. Rubio's campaign sees a potential benefit: Attacks by Mr. Bush and his
allies could engender sympathy for Mr. Rubio, as occurred when Charlie Crist,
his Republican rival in the 2010 Senate primary, was perceived as overly hostile
to Mr. Rubio.

Those involved in the Bush camp's discussions about whether to assail Mr. Rubio
said that no firm plan or timeline was in place and that their focus could shift
to different rivals in the coming weeks.

But the preoccupation with Mr. Rubio is revealing, suggesting not just fury at
his challenge to a former mentor, but also a conviction that rivals like Donald
J. Trump and Ben Carson have no chance of winning and will collapse in time for
Mr. Bush to rise again. Mr. Rubio, the Bush team expects, will remain standing.

For many of Mr. Bush's longest-serving advisers, Mr. Rubio's run is a betrayal:
Mr. Bush backed Mr. Rubio's bid for House speaker in Florida and persuaded
important donors to endorse him for the Senate. A few of Mr. Bush's supporters
have taken to calling Mr. Rubio ''Judas.''

In meetings with donors and allies, Mr. Bush's top aides have pointed to what
they describe as a trove of research on Mr. Rubio that they could unleash.

Any attacks on Mr. Rubio would come primarily from Right to Rise, the ''super
PAC'' that has raised more than $100 million for Mr. Bush. Its top strategist,
Mike Murphy, refused to detail its strategy but did not dispute that Mr. Rubio
was in its sights.

''Part of running for president is you have to put your big boy pants on and get
vetted on the issues, so we know we don't have a dud candidate running against
Hillary Clinton,'' he said.

Asked about the multiple videos of Mr. Bush praising Mr. Rubio over the years,
Mr. Murphy said of Mr. Rubio: ''We all supported him for the Senate. We all
support him staying there, because he is far from proving he is ready and
experienced enough to be president of the United States in a dangerous time.''

Mr. Murphy's critique echoed an internal Bush campaign memo outlining Mr.
Rubio's vulnerabilities. Under the headline ''Marco is a risky bet,'' the memo,
which surfaced on Oct. 29, said Mr. Rubio ''has never been in charge of anything
larger than two dozen people.''

The preparatory work by Right to Rise was described by three people privy to it
who insisted on anonymity to preserve their relationships with the group and
with the Bush campaign.

Right to Rise held focus groups in New Hampshire shortly after the Oct. 28
Republican debate, in which, among other things, the participants were quizzed
about Mr. Rubio's missed votes on two Republican priorities: cutting federal
funding for Planned Parenthood, which carries out abortions, and blocking
President Obama's nuclear agreement with Iran. The responses suggested that both
could provide potent lines of attack.

In an attempt to blunt Mr. Rubio's appeal and showcase a potential vulnerability
against the Democratic nominee in the general election, Mr. Murphy recently
showed some Republicans a video portraying Mr. Rubio as too extreme on abortion.
A longtime opponent of abortion rights, Mr. Rubio said in a debate in August
that he had ''never advocated'' laws that would allow abortions, even in cases
of rape or incest.

Mr. Murphy has privately said to several people that Right to Rise would be
ready to devote up to $20 million to fighting Mr. Rubio, according to several
people told of the conversations. Asked about the figure, Mr. Murphy declined to
comment.

Aides to Mr. Bush, meanwhile, have grown weary of conflicting advice about how
to deal with Mr. Rubio. After the Oct. 28 debate, in which Mr. Bush criticized
Mr. Rubio for missing votes, Mr. Bush's top adviser, Sally Bradshaw, archly
noted on a conference call that the very donors accusing Mr. Bush of being too
aggressive had previously encouraged Mr. Bush to go after Mr. Rubio.

Many of Mr. Bush's supporters are eager for political combat.

''I think it's fair game to point out Marco's record, or lack thereof,'' said
Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., a Republican state senator in New Jersey who is raising
money for Mr. Bush. ''It's not below the belt.''

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/politics/bush-allies-threaten-wave-of-harsh
-attacks-on-rubio-an-ex-mentee.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida at La Casa de Esperanza,
a community organization and school in Waukesha, Wis., on Monday. Left, Senator
Marco Rubio of Florida at Rivier University in Nashua, N.H., on Wednesday.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 IAN THOMAS JANSEN-LONNQUIST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS
(89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS
& ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ABORTION (72%);
FUNDRAISING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%)

PERSON: MARCO RUBIO (93%); JEB BUSH (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

CITY: NASHUA, NH, USA (78%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a New Novel, a Rothschild Writes About a Familiar World

BYLINE: By ROSLYN SULCAS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1083 words


LONDON -- There wasn't a minion in sight at the Rothschild offices here, and
Hannah Rothschild -- author, filmmaker, chairwoman of the National Gallery --
was looking dubiously at the coffee-making apparatus on a table in a small
boardroom. ''I think this machine works,'' she said.

The offices, in a discreetly small building on a discreetly small road near
Green Park in Mayfair here, have the confidently shabby patina of old money
(polished wood, real art, not a shimmer of bling). Ms. Rothschild, 53, whose
first novel, ''The Improbability of Love'' (Knopf), came out last week in the
United States, is elegant in a low-key, no-makeup way, and self-deprecating in a
particularly English fashion.

''I had always written, but it took a huge amount to say, 'I've got enough to
say to write a book,''' she said. ''A novel is very exposing too; there is not
much you can hide behind.''

''The Improbability of Love'' received warm reviews when it was published in
Britain in May and it is being translated into six languages. It centers on a
fictional missing painting by the Rococo French artist Jean-Antoine Watteau and
boasts a picturesque crew of characters: the 91-year-old founder of a venerable
art gallery, a titled auctioneer, the careworn director of the National Gallery,
oligarchs, a sheikha, a Kanye West-esque rapper, a hedge fund tycoon, rapacious
collectors and a supporting cast of art-world figures. The novel's heroine,
Annie McDee, a lonely young chef, has bought the Watteau -- which also has a
voice in the story -- in a junk shop and remains innocently unaware of its value
and its part in the Nazi appropriation of art during World War II.

''I don't know why everyone doesn't set their novel in the art world,'' Ms.
Rothschild said. ''It's got everything: extremes of wealth, goodies, baddies,
the intangibility of beauty and desire, history, scholarship, mastery, you name
it. Sometimes, while I was writing it, I would think, 'I've gone too far.' Then
I would go into a sale room and think, 'I haven't gone far enough.'''

Although Ms. Rothschild insisted emphatically that her characters were entirely
fictional, she is enough of an art world insider for speculation to proliferate
about who is based on whom. (She acknowledges that one extravagantly fabulous
character is based on the interior designer Nicky Haslam.) Born into a prominent
banking and art-loving family -- her father, Jacob Rothschild, has an extensive
collection -- she made several films about the art world, among other subjects,
during a long career as a documentary filmmaker with the BBC; is in charge of
liaison between the National Gallery and the Tate; and was a trustee at the
National Gallery before becoming its chairwoman in August.

''She has been involved with the art world for long enough to really capture it
well,'' said Nicholas Serota, the director of the Tate. ''Her novel is not
unsympathetic, but it does expose some of the fairly sharp practices in this
world, which is unregulated and to say the least, not very transparent.''

As the head of the board of trustees at the National Gallery here, Ms.
Rothschild follows in her father's footsteps; he held the position from 1985 to
1991. Almost inevitably, an accusation of nepotism and elitism followed her
appointment. ''Jacob Rothschild's daughter Hannah is to be the new chairman. Say
no more,'' Roy Strong, the former director of the National Portrait Gallery, was
quoted as saying in a report in The Daily Mail. ''There's nothing wrong with it,
but it's a bit dynastic. Money drives all now.''

Ms. Rothschild was crisp in her response. ''I was a trustee of the N.G. for six
years before becoming chair,'' she said in an email. ''I applied for the role
via a newspaper advertisement and the appointment was made by the Labour prime
minister of the time, Gordon Brown. To become chair I went through a competitive
process and the appointment was made by the present Prime Minister David
Cameron. Not sure how nepotism even comes into this!''

Nick Fraser, the editor of Storyville, a division of the BBC for which Ms.
Rothschild made three films, used stronger language. ''They are lucky to have
people as intelligent as Hannah when the British establishment is full of
dunderheads,'' he said. ''You can see the historic intelligence of the
Rothschilds in her.''

Ms. Rothschild began to work at the BBC after studying for a history degree at
Oxford, where she was tutored by Francis Haskell, whose specialty was the
history of taste. ''It was there that I really understood about paintings having
their own histories as they moved from owner to owner,'' she said. ''When I was
young, I used to long for the pictures to talk to me and tell me about
themselves, and Francis made me realize they could tell me about the salons of
popes and kings and despots. That became something that really fed into the
book.''

Her shift from filmmaking to writing happened, she said, after making a
documentary, ''The Jazz Baroness,'' about her great-aunt, Nica Rothschild, who
ran away from husband and family to follow Thelonious Monk. ''I had hours and
hours of footage and notes that I couldn't use in the documentary, so I wrote
her biography,'' Ms. Rothschild said. ''It wasn't that I was disenchanted with
documentary filmmaking. But there was a limitation to the medium.''

Ms. Rothschild said that she had long thought about writing a novel (''Doesn't
everybody?'') and would often put ideas and pictures in a shoe box. ''Over the
years I had put in a postcard of a Watteau I had seen in the Louvre when I was
young and lonely, or parts of conversations that had struck me. Some of the
characters were in that shoe box in sketch form.''

A lot of her family history, she said, influenced ''The Improbability of Love.''
''The oligarchs and sheikhs of today use art as a way of showing taste and
refinement, just as the Rothschilds did in the 19th century,'' she said. ''I
also think that an association with beauty, perhaps when you have come from
recent ugliness, from poverty and being uprooted, is very soothing.''

Since 2012, Ms. Rothschild has worked closely with her father on aspects of the
family's businesses and charities. It had taken her a long time, she said to
gain confidence and feel that she had established her own identity.

''The name I have has huge advantages, but I found it very overwhelming when I
was younger,'' she said. ''I'm part of a very interesting tradition, but it's an
awful lot to live up to.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/books/hannah-rothschild-adds-novelist-to-her-r
esume.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hannah Rothschild, who has written her first novel, ''The
Improbability of Love,'' at Spencer House in London. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW TESTA
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PAINTING (90%);
WRITERS (90%); FICTION LITERATURE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL
ARTISTS (90%); FILM (89%); ART DEALERS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); HIP
HOP CULTURE (75%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); RAP MUSIC (64%); WORLD WAR II (62%);
INTERIOR DECORATING (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: JACOB ROTHSCHILD (79%); KANYE WEST (50%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rand Paul's Lost Moment

BYLINE: By EMMA ROLLER.

Emma Roller, a former reporter for National Journal, is a contributing opinion
writer.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1330 words


Senator Rand Paul doesn't like country music.

On an August trip to Haiti to perform pro bono eye surgery, a twangy song came
over the speakers while he was in the operating room. A reporter in the room
asked if, while he performed surgery, he had any music preferences.

''Just not this,'' the Kentucky senator said, then laughed. ''I'm not a big
country person.''

''Do you like this song though?'' someone else asked.

''Is it about beer and leaving your woman and beer and a truck?'' Mr. Paul
responded.

By contrast, his fellow Republican candidates have tripped over one another to
pledge fidelity to Nashville. Last spring, Senator Ted Cruz said he had
converted from listening to classic rock to country music after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks. When the former Texas governor Rick Perry announced his own
short-lived candidacy, he did it with a customized version of the country rap
song ''Answer to No One.'' But Mr. Paul has long indicated how unlike other
Republicans he is.

His idiosyncrasies, both personal and political, have led some news outlets to
brand him ''the most interesting man in politics.'' He's been billed as the
Great Tent Grower, a Republican candidate who could excite the conservative base
and draw younger, more diverse voters into the fold. Instead, he is down in the
polls, offering a prime example of the struggle many Republican candidates have
faced adapting to a historically weird primary. This campaign was supposed to be
Mr. Paul's opportunity to run as a political anomaly. Unfortunately for him, the
field is awash with anomalies.

Heading into Tuesday night's Republican primary debate, Mr. Paul finds himself
hovering around eighth place in the polls, sandwiched between Gov. John Kasich
of Ohio and the former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee. Aside from one memorable
shouting match with Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, Mr. Paul has largely
faded into the backdrop during debates, struggling to find a way to make himself
stand out amid bombastic candidates likeDonald J. Trump and others. In
mid-October, the Paul campaign even released a memo assuring the public that he
was not dropping out of the race -- not exactly a sign of a robust operation.

New Hampshire -- where the annual Porcupine Freedom Festival draws liberty
lovers of all stripes to camp and celebrate the free market, and where the
former Texas congressman Ron Paul, Mr. Paul's father, took second place in the
2012 Republican primary -- is traditionally thought of as a bastion of
libertarian sentiment. Yet one recent New Hampshire poll put him in ninth place.
The day after those poll results came out, the Paul campaign blasted out a news
release boasting 325 endorsements from New Hampshire Republicans. Apparently,
his campaign successfully tracked down nearly every person who supported him in
the poll.

One possible explanation for Mr. Paul's struggles is his hype-to-reality ratio:
By trying to please too many factions, he has become slippery and amorphous like
a political jellyfish. At the outset of his campaign, Mr. Paul's ability to
tailor his words for a particular audience appeared to be one of his biggest
strengths. But in the era of instantly uploaded video clips, it's a lot harder
to present different messages to different groups of people, at least in public.

On topics from vaccinations to his views on the Civil Rights Act to immigration
reform to foreign aid to Israel to the use of military force against the Islamic
State, Mr. Paul has struggled to shake his image as a flip-flopper.

Meanwhile, Republican primary voters have shown they don't want an
all-things-to-all-people candidate. Instead, they've flocked to Mr. Trump and
Ben Carson, two very different candidates who appear to have a shared love of
political incorrectness and almost casual xenophobia. Other Republican primary
voters have found a superior version of Mr. Paul in Mr. Cruz, who has campaigned
by preaching almost exclusively to the conservative choir.

Mr. Cruz has also been quietly working to siphon off Mr. Paul's supporters for
his own group of ''liberty leaders.'' In September, Mr. Cruz named the former
congressman Bob Barr, the Libertarian Party's presidential nominee in 2008, the
national chair of his ''liberty leaders for Cruz'' coalition.

A second explanation for Mr. Paul's political implosion: Libertarianism isn't as
popular within the Republican Party as conventional wisdom suggests. Unlike
evangelical voters, who in past cycles helped prop up the candidacies of Mr.
Huckabee and Rick Santorum, the former Pennsylvania senator, libertarians have
not become a powerful faction in the Republican primary process. It is someone
like the Iowa evangelical leader Bob Vander Plaats, not Ron Paul or Gary
Johnson, whom establishment candidates see as a crucial ideological ally to
court.

One faction where Mr. Paul could succeed, as his father did, is with younger,
independent-minded voters. However, as we learned in 2008 and 2012, those young
conservatives do not have a very strong voice compared with older primary
voters. Before the Summer of Trump descended on the countryside like a plague of
tannedlocusts, some observers thought libertarians would be the main outsider
faction in the Republican primary. What the rise of candidates like Mr. Trump,
Mr. Carson and Carly Fiorina show is that a shrinking pool of older, white,
working-class voters still rules the Republican nomination process, despite the
Republican National Committee's calls to attract a younger, more diverse pool of
voters.

Another problem for the Paul family brand: Libertarianism has not exploded in
the same way that, say, support for gay marriage has in the past 10 years. While
more Americans identify as political independents today -- up to roughly 42
percent now from 33 percent 10 years ago -- that has not translated into a boom
in libertarianism. Gallup has found that libertarians' share of the electorate
has hovered around 20 percent for the past decade.

Finally, Mr. Paul doesn't seem to particularly enjoy being a presidential
candidate.

In one recent publicity stunt gone horribly wrong, Mr. Paul's camp tried to
broadcast a day on the campaign trail over a live stream, hashtagging it
#randlive. Multiple reporters tried and failed to follow the live stream, which
cut in and out throughout the day.

The one piece of news the stunt did generate was a punch line, when an
embittered Mr. Paul answered the question ''Is Rand Paul still running for
president?'' by saying, somewhat indelicately, that he wouldn't be doing the
live stream if he weren't. Earlier in the day, he was asked how old he is: ''The
real answer, I guess, is 52. But I sometimes feel about 10, to 20, to maybe 30,
to 40, to 50 years older after a day of this.''

A few days later, Mr. Paul was asked at a New Hampshire campaign stop if he was
enjoying himself. ''I love it,'' he sarcastically told a reporter. ''We're
thinking about putting out smiling emojis in all our emails, do you think that
would help?''

Beyond his ideological or behavioral worries, there's the question of his
campaign's financial solvency. In the third fund-raising quarter, Mr. Paul
raised a paltry $2.5 million. Over the same time period in 2011, Ron Paul's
campaign raised $8 million. Mr. Paul's so-called burn rate in the third quarter
was the fourth highest in the field, nearly three times that of Mr. Cruz.

Fund-raising isn't just about asking people to give money out of the goodness of
their hearts; it's also about candidates schmoozing with rich people and making
them feel special. And Mr. Paul, like his father before him, appears allergic to
the grip-and-grin duties our political process requires.

Of course, running for president is grueling, unforgiving work. It's fair not to
like it. But all of Mr. Paul's grim-faced grinding could very well be for
naught; this is now an outsider's world, and a senator at the end of his first
term is no longer considered an outsider.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/opinion/campaign-stops/rand-pauls-lost-moment.
html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%);
SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); COUNTRY MUSIC (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%);
CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (88%); POLITICS (88%); GOVERNORS (88%); POLITICAL DEBATES (79%); EYE
DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (78%); PRIMARY
ELECTIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); RAP MUSIC (73%); POP
& ROCK (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); TERRORISM (68%);
TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%)

COMPANY: SENATOR ENTERTAINMENT AG (92%)

TICKER: SMNK (FRA) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); SIC7812 MOTION
PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (92%)

PERSON: RAND PAUL (90%); RON PAUL (79%); CHRIS CHRISTIE (79%); TED CRUZ (79%);
RICK PERRY (54%); JOHN KASICH (54%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (54%)

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%);
TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama and Netanyahu Seek Common Ground in White House Meeting

BYLINE: By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1140 words


WASHINGTON --  President Obama and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel
sought on Monday to move beyond their bitter rupture over the Iran nuclear deal,
turning the page on a season of poisonous relations during a White House meeting
that focused on collaboration over acrimony.

In a two-and-a-half-hour session that was more pragmatic than warm, Mr. Obama
and Mr. Netanyahu chose to highlight their shared goals of confronting Iranian
misbehavior, countering terrorism, bolstering Israel's security and strategizing
over the crisis in Syria.

Mr. Obama said it was time to put aside their ''strong disagreement'' over the
Iran deal, which he described as a ''narrow'' one that had been allowed to
eclipse areas of common interest. He said the two sides should push forward to
renegotiate a 10-year, multibillion-dollar package of military aid for Israel
and to find ways to calm tensions that have set off a recent wave of violence
between Israelis and Palestinians.

Speaking to Israeli reporters after the session, Mr. Netanyahu called it ''one
of the best meetings I've had with Obama,'' describing it as devoid of tension.
''The conversation was in very good spirits and very honest,'' he said. ''No one
hid the disagreements between us. Rather, we focused on how to go forward.''

Privately, the president told the prime minister he would dispatch high-level
aides to Israel next month to begin formal discussions on the security
agreement, according to senior administration and Israeli officials.

''It was a forward-looking meeting,'' said a senior administration official,
speaking on the condition of anonymity to detail the Oval Office encounter,
which was the leaders' first meeting in more than a year. ''There was obviously
an awareness of past disagreements, including recent ones, and no attempt to
paper over them, but also no attempt to rehash them on either side.''

Mr. Obama began the meeting by seeking to minimize his highly public dispute
with Mr. Netanyahu over the Iran deal, reached in July, which would ease
sanctions in exchange for steps to restrain Tehran from obtaining a nuclear
weapon.

''It's no secret that the prime minister and I have had a strong disagreement on
this narrow issue,'' Mr. Obama said, seated beside Mr. Netanyahu. ''But we don't
have a disagreement on the need for making sure that Iran does not get a nuclear
weapon, and we don't have a disagreement about us blunting destabilizing
activities in Iran that may be taking place.''

Instead of arguing over the merits of the Iran deal, as they had previously, the
two leaders had a practical conversation about contingency planning should
Tehran violate its terms. Mr. Netanyahu raised concerns about how quickly Iran
might be able to reconstitute its nuclear capabilities after certain terms of
the agreement have lapsed.

The meeting was in many ways a return to the cool, transactional manner in which
Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu have long operated. Officials on both sides
described it as ''businesslike'' and ''cordial.'' The president noted that he
had met with the Israeli prime minister as many times as with any other foreign
leader -- a sign, he said, of the ''extraordinary bonds'' between their
countries.

''It doesn't mean that they have agreed on every issue, and it doesn't mean that
they are the best of friends,'' said Josh Earnest, the White House spokesman.
''But it does mean that they are able to work effectively together.''

Mr. Netanyahu, who choreographed his visit in part to mend fences with the Obama
administration and Democrats who were alienated by his aggressive lobbying
against the nuclear deal, did not mention the accord during a short appearance
before reporters at the start of the meeting. He said he shared Mr. Obama's goal
of eventually resolving the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians with a
two-state solution.

''I want to make it clear that we have not given up our hope for peace -- we'll
never give up our hope for peace,'' Mr. Netanyahu said. ''And I remain committed
to a vision of peace of two states for two peoples, a demilitarized Palestinian
state that recognizes the Jewish state.''

It was a striking moment after a period of barbed statements and escalating
discord that pushed the two leaders' relationship -- never warm -- to the
chilliest of lows. In March, amid the hostility, the Israeli prime minister
declared on the eve of his re-election that there would be no Palestinian state
on his watch. The president later chided him publicly for the statement, and
administration officials continued to criticize him even after he sought to
publicly disavow it.

On Monday, the two leaders appeared resigned to their differences on the topic,
with Obama administration officials having acknowledged in recent days that the
prospects for negotiations on a two-state solution during Mr. Obama's remaining
14 months in office were exceedingly remote.

The president, who has often coupled his denunciation of Palestinian violence
against Israelis with strong statements of disapproval for Israel's retaliation,
stopped short of doing so in his meeting with Mr. Netanyahu, more pointedly
taking his side in the recent bloodshed.

''I want to be very clear that we condemn in the strongest terms Palestinian
violence against innocent Israeli citizens,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And I want to
repeat once again, it is my strong belief that Israel has not just the right,
but the obligation, to protect itself.''

Still, Mr. Obama did raise the issue of Israeli settlement activity with the
prime minister, the administration official said, saying that it harmed the
prospect for a two-state solution.

The leaders spent a substantial amount of time during their private meeting
discussing the renewal of the 10-year package of United States military
assistance to Israel, according to senior administration officials, although
there was no commitment to bolstering American aid. Israel is said to be seeking
$5 billion, a substantial increase from the roughly $3 billion agreement that
expires in 2017.

Later, accepting an award from the conservative-leaning American Enterprise
Institute, Mr. Netanyahu acknowledged his disagreement with Mr. Obama on the
Iran deal, but added, ''That deal was signed.'' He said his focus now was on its
implementation, countering Iran's misdeeds and dismantling its terrorist
network.

Still, the prime minister suggested that it was naïve to expect the agreement to
bring a shift to a more moderate leadership in Iran.

''It'll be left to history to see if Iran will modernize and reform under this
clique,'' Mr. Netanyahu said. ''I have my doubts. I hope I'm wrong; I suspect
I'll be proved right.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/middleeast/obama-netanyahu-iran-nuclear-
deal.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The meeting on Monday between President Obama and Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu was called businesslike and cordial. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG
MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); 2015 IRAN NUCLEAR AGREEMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS
(90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); TALKS &
MEETINGS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); AGREEMENTS (73%); TERRORISM (70%);
COUNTERTERRORISM (56%); SYRIAN CRISIS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (92%)

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (92%);
PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SYRIA (79%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pepsi Is Departing Citi Field, Leaving Behind a Bare Porch

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 282 words


Thanks to their surprising success in 2015, the Mets should see a healthy bump
in ticket sales over the winter and more companies lining up to sign sponsorship
deals with the club, which made it to the World Series after six consecutive
losing seasons.

But to Pepsi, a marquee sponsor at Citi Field since it opened in 2009, the fizz
is gone. The soda company will not renew its deal with the Mets even though the
team finally turned things around. So farewell, Pepsi Porch. And goodbye, giant
Pepsi sign.

''Pepsi loves the great sport of baseball,'' the company said in a statement.
''We've had a productive relationship with the Mets and wish them all the best
in the future, but have decided to reinvest in a different way.''

The company declined to say how it would redirect its money. But according to
Sports Business Journal, Pepsi will pour more marketing dollars into its
existing deal with the Chicago Cubs, who are renovating Wrigley Field. The Cubs,
of course, also had a surprisingly successful season before they were swept by
the Mets in the National League Championship Series.

Pepsi felt that it was already represented in New York at Yankee Stadium and
wanted to invest more in Chicago, where it has been a sponsor of the Cubs since
the 1980s, according to Sports Business Journal.

The Mets will remove the giant red sign that displayed the soda maker's name and
towered over the second deck in right field, which was aptly named the Pepsi
Porch.

Meanwhile, Pepsi's departure has not gone unnoticed. Coca-Cola is in discussions
to become the official soda of the Mets. If a deal is reached, will the team
rename the second deck in right field in honor of Coke? Stay tuned.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/baseball/pepsi-is-departing-citi-field-
leaving-behind-a-bare-porch.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The second deck in right field at Citi Field, with the giant
Pepsi sign, has become known as the Pepsi Porch. The sign will be removed.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON SZENES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPONSORSHIP (91%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%);
SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); SPORTS (90%);
SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASEBALL (90%); TICKET
SALES (73%); SOFT DRINKS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (68%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (90%); CITIGROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); CHICAGO CUBS (83%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED
SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%);
NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

As China Seeks More Births, Higher Limit May Not Be the Answer

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM EUROPE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1302 words


LONDON --  China's decision to allow more families to have a second child is an
effort to confront a problem that is facing much of Europe, too -- aging
populations and not enough babies. But reversing a demographic slide involves a
complicated set of incentives that have more to do with social mores than with
government policies, experts say.

Studies indicate that countries with healthy demographic trends are not those
that promote birth, but those with higher levels of gender equality, of trust
within society and of immigration.

So even for authoritarian China, raising the fertility rate will not be simple.

Examples of countries that recover from low fertility rates are rare, scholars
and experts say. Immigration can play a positive role -- not because immigrants
have many more children than natives, but because they tend to be of
childbearing age and have their children in their new countries.

Germany, for example, has a low fertility rate of about 1.4 or 1.5 children born
per woman, well below the replacement rate of 2.1. The problem has been
especially acute in the former East Germany, similar to the situation in other
post-Communist nations, leading to some dire predictions of a shrinking German
population.

But Chancellor Angela Merkel's decision to take in a large number of migrants
and refugees of childbearing age is almost certain to have a positive effect on
the birthrate.

In the 1960s and '70s, birthrates in many European countries were low. In later
decades, birthrates in many of them, as in Germany and Austria, remained low,
''but the Nordic countries and France reversed,'' said Gunnar Andersson, a
professor of demography at Stockholm University.

Partly that was because of social policies and attitudes in those countries,
promoting gender equality and being friendlier to women in the workplace,
including leaves and day care. But the main explanation for the change,
demographers said, was that because women were working and had more
opportunities, they were having children later than usual, not that they were
having a lot more children.

That is the difference between ''cohort fertility'' -- the fertility of all
women of the same age over their lifetimes -- and ''period fertility,'' measured
year to year, said David Coleman, emeritus professor of demography at Oxford
University.

''In Western Europe since the late 1960s and 1970s, there has been a major trend
toward postponement of fertility going hand in hand with the emancipation of
women in education and the workplace,'' Mr. Coleman said. ''So it was natural to
delay childbearing. But inevitably, when the birthrate went down, we were misled
into thinking that it was a permanent state of affairs.''

As women grew older and decided that if they wanted children they had better get
to it, he said, ''the birthrate of those in their 30s and 40s has been going up
slowly but gradually.''

In Sweden, Mr. Andersson said, period fertility went up and down, but cohort
fertility remained close to two children per woman. ''Swedish women have been
having an average of two children for a century,'' he said.

War and economic change matter, too, said Stuart Gietel-Basten, associate
professor of social policy at Oxford. Women tend to postpone having children in
chaotic periods, during war or deep recessions, he said, then catch up later.

Social policy can also help but is not a complete answer, said Francesco
Billari, a professor of sociology and demography at Oxford.

''A basic element of fertility rebound is a society with increasing gender
equality,'' he said. ''When women are in the labor market and social policy
helps them and men do more child care in the household, fertility bounces up.
But social policy has to be pushed by a society that is ready for it or demands
it from politicians.''

Mr. Billari cited Italy, where the population has continued growing modestly
despite traditional worries about abortion, divorce and decline. But while
historically richer northern Italy once had fewer children and poorer southern
Italy had large families, ''now that has completely reversed,'' he said.

Women in the richer north, he said, with more gender equality and job
opportunities, are having more children than before. At the same time, women in
the poorer south are having fewer children in a society with high unemployment
and where there remains a ''more traditional gender division of labor and lack
of female participation in the work force -- it's more like China,'' he said.

The lack of gender equality, small numbers of working women and few social
policies to support them help explain why Russia, Central Europe and East Asia
have generally not been able to bounce back from low fertility levels, Mr.
Billari said.

In general, ''natalist policies'' -- government diktats to have more children,
or appeals to patriotism, or even cash subsidies for having larger families --
tend not to increase fertility very much, he said.

One sharp and brutal counterexample was in 1966, when the Romanian dictator
Nicolae Ceausescu suddenly banned all abortions. The total fertility rate jumped
from 1.9 in 1965 to 3.66 in 1966. But later it fell again.

Turkey under President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has also pushed natalist policies
with some success through welfare payments to the poor, keeping fertility around
2.1, considered the replacement rate necessary to keep a population stable.

Immigration can also help stabilize or restore fertility rates, as in the United
States and in Britain, which ''has no population policy at all, though the
fertility rate is quite high,'' Mr. Gietel-Basten said.

China will be watched carefully, but those experts said they believed that the
new policy of allowing two children would have only limited effect. Partly, they
said, that is because generations of Chinese have grown up with the experience
of small families and partly because China's social and housing structure does
not favor large families.

''We've seen reforms in the past where some couples are eligible to have a
second child and often they don't,'' Mr. Gietel-Basten said. ''There will be a
small baby boom, especially in poorer, more rural areas like Sichuan, where the
policies have been strict. But even there it's about aspirations. People want to
move to town, and having kids becomes a brake on those aspirations.''

China's urban housing is crowded and small, a further disincentive for more
children, Mr. Coleman said. ''For a while, not much will happen in China,'' he
said. ''They're locked into population decline.''

The one-child policy, with other factors, radically brought down the fertility
rate, he said. Given the unreliability of official Chinese figures, he said, no
one really knows the fertility rate now. Mr. Gietel-Basten said ''it could vary
from 1.4 to 1.8, but most people think it's between 1.5 and 1.6, which is well
below replacement rate and has been so for some time.''

That creates ''negative demographic momentum,'' he explained, since for some
time each generation is smaller, so there will be fewer babies. But it may be
self-correcting over the next 10 to 15 years, he said.

But in China, as in most of Asia, fertility will not be aided by immigration,
because there is little immigration in East Asia.

Mr. Billari said, ''We may actually see further fertility decline in China after
a small blip upward.'' With the decline in fertility, there was a window of
opportunity for development, with fewer young and not so many old, he said.

''But for China that window is closing,'' he said. ''What happens is that all
these workers get old and the numbers entering the labor market are smaller, so
you have to change completely the way the society is organized. And no one has
observed the kind of population-aging we will see in China.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/europe/as-china-and-europe-age-path-to-m
ore-children-lies-beyond-bedroom.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A boy in Beijing. China has relaxed its one-child rule, but the
experience of Europe shows that other changes may be necessary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
GREG BAKER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH
(90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS
(90%); FAMILY (90%); FERTILITY RATES (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH
RATES (89%); WOMEN (89%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%);
TRENDS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AGING
TRENDS (77%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%);
GERMAN CHANCELLORS (76%); GENDER EQUALITY (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS
(75%); AGING (72%); REFUGEES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (79%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (77%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%)

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (58%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (93%); AUSTRIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE
(79%); SWEDEN (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Curbs N.S.A. Data Collection

BYLINE: By CHARLIE SAVAGE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 852 words


WASHINGTON --  A federal judge on Monday partly blocked the National Security
Agency's program that systematically collects Americans' domestic phone records
in bulk just weeks before the agency was scheduled to shut it down and replace
it. The judge said the program was most likely unconstitutional.

In a separate case challenging the program, a federal appeals court in New York
on Oct. 30 had declined to weigh in on the constitutional issues, saying it
would be imprudent to interfere with an orderly transition to a replacement
system after Nov. 29.

But on Monday, in a 43-page ruling, Judge Richard J. Leon of United States
District Court for the District of Columbia wrote that the constitutional issues
were too important to leave unanswered in the history of the program, which
traces back to after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and came to light in 2013 in
leaks by Edward J. Snowden, the former intelligence contractor.

''With the government's authority to operate the bulk telephony metadata program
quickly coming to an end, this case is perhaps the last chapter in the
judiciary's evaluation of this particular program's compatibility with the
Constitution,'' he wrote. ''It will not, however, be the last chapter in the
ongoing struggle to balance privacy rights and national security interests under
our Constitution in an age of evolving technological wizardry.''

Under the program, the N.S.A. has been collecting Americans' phone records in
bulk from telephone companies. It uses the data to analyze social links between
people to hunt for hidden associates of terrorism suspects.

Judge Leon specifically ordered the N.S.A. to stop collecting phone records for
one customer of Verizon: a lawyer in California and his law firm. But he did so,
he wrote, knowing that the Justice Department had said that blocking the
collection of just one person's records might require shutting down the entire
program because it would be technically difficult to screen him out.

The Justice Department said it was reviewing the decision but had no comment
about whether it would appeal the injunction. Reuters reported on Monday that
the N.S.A. had sent a memo to Congress saying that testing of the replacement
system had begun.

The program began based on a unilateral claim of executive power by President
George W. Bush. In 2006, the Justice Department persuaded the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court to begin issuing orders for the program under an
interpretation of a provision of the U.S.A. Patriot Act that permits collection
of business records relevant to a national-security investigation.

In June 2013, Mr. Snowden leaked one such order to a subsidiary of Verizon.
After substantial debate, Congress in June enacted the U.S.A. Freedom Act, which
banned bulk collection under the Patriot Act after Nov. 29, and established a
system under which the bulk data will stay with the phone companies but the
N.S.A. can swiftly access it.

Revelations of the program set off lawsuits challenging it as illegal on
statutory and constitutional grounds. In December 2013, Judge Leon ruled that it
was most likely unconstitutional but issued no order, permitting the Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia to review his ruling.

But a week later in a different case, a federal judge in New York ruled that the
program was legal. The federal appeals court in New York eventually ruled that
the program was not based on a legitimate interpretation of the Patriot Act, but
sidestepped the constitutional question.

Judge Leon's ruling that the bulk collection of calling records most likely
violated the Constitution was novel because in 1979, the Supreme Court held that
call logs or metadata -- records showing who called whom and when, but not the
content of what they said -- was not protected by the Fourth Amendment.

Its ruling turned on the notion that people have no reasonable expectation of
privacy for information they reveal to a third party, and they expose whom they
are calling to phone companies. That case, however, involved one criminal
suspect's calls over several days, not call records of everyone in the country
and the storage of them for five years.

Judge Leon argued that changing technological capabilities had brought call
records into the ambit of Fourth Amendment protections. But last summer, an
appeals court overturned his ruling on a technicality: There was not enough
evidence that the plaintiffs in the case -- including Larry Klayman, the
conservative legal activist -- had their calls collected by the program. Mr.
Klayman was a not a customer of the Verizon subsidiary in the order Mr. Snowden
leaked.

The appeals court sent the case back to Judge Leon, who suggested to Mr. Klayman
that he add a plaintiff who was a customer of the Verizon subsidiary. He did so:
J.J. Little, a trial lawyer in California, and his law firm.

Judge Leon issued the injunction on Monday for Mr. Little's records, not Mr.
Klayman's.

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/politics/judge-deals-a-blow-to-nsa-phone-su
rveillance-program.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%);
NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE
FORCES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PATRIOT ACT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%);
SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ESPIONAGE (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS
(78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (76%);
TERRORISM (73%); TELEPHONE SERVICES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); LEGAL SERVICES
(69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); METADATA MANAGEMENT (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%);
PRIVACY RIGHTS (65%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (92%); US DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA (57%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE)
(58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA
(79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Looking to Stars to Highlight Science

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 956 words


MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. -- Movie stars. Red carpet. Awards.

It's a familiar script. Except that the event here on Sunday night was far from
New York and Hollywood, and the boldfaced names were gathered not to celebrate
movies or music, but life sciences, physics and mathematics.

The idea behind the Breakthrough Prize is that if scientists are viewed as
celebrities -- as cool as movie and rock stars -- then more young students will
aspire to be scientists (and if the cool factor isn't enough, there are $22
million in prizes handed out each year).

Yuri Milner, a Russian investor, Silicon Valley mogul and theoretical physics
dropout, established the prize with Silicon Valley's so-called digerati,
including Sergey Brin of Google; Anne Wojcicki of 23andMe; Jack Ma of Alibaba
and his wife, Cathy Zhang; and Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook and his wife,
Priscilla Chan.

Now in its third year, the awards ceremony has so far only taken baby steps
toward Mr. Milner's dream of a global audience of between 50 and 100 million
people. Though it was broadcast live for the first time last night, on the
National Geographic cable channel, Mr. Milner acknowledged there was still a
ways to go before the Breakthrough Prize has a breakout moment of its own.

''We are at the very beginning of this journey,'' he said, noting that if you
were to look at a list of the top 100 celebrities in American society, there
would not be a single scientist on the list.

''The question is why?'' he added.

The entire world, including both the United States and Russia, has moved in the
wrong direction in the last 50 years in terms of how scientists are perceived,
Mr. Milner said. He pointed to scientists like Albert Einstein and Richard
Feynman, who once had celebrity status. ''We peaked 50 years ago and it has been
a downward slope since then,'' he said.

And so the organizers brought in some star power and glamour to help reverse the
slide. Thomas Keller, the American chef who created the French Laundry
restaurant in Yountville, Calif., catered the event at NASA's Ames Research
Center, in a transparent tent in the shadow of the vast skeleton of the Hanger
One airship base.

The award presenters included the actors Russell Crowe and Hilary Swank.
Pharrell Williams, the singer, songwriter and producer, performed. The evening
was hosted by Seth MacFarlane, the comedian and producer, who played to the
tech-centric crowd with riffs about anti-science Republican presidential
candidates.

''It is thrilling to be here in the same room as some of the smartest people in
the world,'' Mr. MacFarlane began. ''Or as Donald Trump calls you, 'egghead
idiots.'''

The event gamely tried to capture the spirit of the Academy Awards, even if the
competitive tension was missing. A glossy video celebrates each prize winner,
and the trophies are awarded in each category by Hollywood celebrities paired
with Silicon Valley chief executives.

In a sign of the unity the night promoted, the former Silicon Valley power
couple of Mr. Brin and Ms. Wojcicki, who are divorced, appeared on stage
together to present a Life Sciences award to the British Alzheimer's researcher
John Hardy.

During the awards ceremony, a number of the presenters extolled their favorite
high school science teacher for inspiring them. To underscore the importance of
earlier science education, the Breakthrough Prize this year added a Junior
Challenge, as a fourth category. It was won by Ryan Chester, 18, a high school
senior from North Royalton, Ohio, for producing a video explaining Einstein's
special theory of relativity.

Mr. Chester, however, said in an interview that he was not planning to study
science in college, but instead will probably study film, hopefully at a school
like the University of Southern California or New York University.

The prize does have a scientific impact, said Jennifer Doudna, a professor of
chemistry and molecular cell biology at the University of California, Berkeley,
and a prizewinner last year.

''I would say it has an impact on students,'' she said. ''I get regular email
from students who are inspired not just by the prize but by the attention it
places on science, and that's a wonderful thing.''

For his part, Mr. Milner underscored the organic relationship between science
and Silicon Valley. Noting that science is always at the root of new
technologies, he pointed out that quantum mechanics underlies not just the
microelectronics industry, but a large fraction of the entire gross domestic
product of the United States.

''It's all based on pure fundamental discoveries made 100 years ago by people
who were not thinking about smartphones,'' he said. ''They were thinking about
fundamental science.''

Other winners this year included two neuroscientists, Karl Deisseroth of
Stanford and Edward S. Boyden, of M.I.T. who collaborated on the development of
a technique known as optogenetics which permits detailed observations of the
activity of neurons in the brain. Helen Hobbs, a cardiology researcher at the
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, who advanced the understanding
of the role of a particular gene in high cholesterol and heart disease, also won
a life sciences award. In physics, the prize was given to a community of 1,300
physicists led by seven researchers who have shed new light on the basic
structure of subatomic particles known as neutrinos. Ian Agol won a math prize
and Svante Paabo, an evolutionary geneticist, won a life sciences award.

''The main element is getting young people interested,'' said Arthur B.
McDonald, a physicist who leads a team of researchers at the Sudbury Neutrino
Observatory in Ontario, Canada. ''The idea is that there are still major things
to be done.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/science/breakthrough-prize-science-awards.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ­Helen Hobbs, a cardiology researcher at the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center, won a life sciences Breakthrough Prize. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); PHYSICS
(89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); SINGERS &
MUSICIANS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (76%); MUSIC (72%);
SONG WRITING (72%); POP & ROCK (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); CABLE
TELEVISION (66%); CATERING SERVICES (65%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016
(60%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS
(50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%); GOOGLE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (59%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(56%)

PERSON: ALBERT EINSTEIN (79%); PHARRELL WILLIAMS (78%); DONALD TRUMP (74%); SETH
MACFARLANE (58%); JACK MA (58%); SERGEY BRIN (54%); MARK ZUCKERBERG (52%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (89%); NAPA
VALLEY, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jordanian Officer Kills Five, Including Two Americans, at Training Base

BYLINE: By RANA F. SWEIS and DAN BILEFSKY; Rana F. Sweis reported from Amman,
and Dan Bilefsky from London. Reporting was contributed by Eric Schmitt and
Julie Hirschfeld Davis from Washington; Michael R. Gordon from Erbil, Iraq; Diaa
Hadid from Ramallah, West Bank; and Rick Gladstone from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 937 words


AMMAN, Jordan --  At least five people, including two American trainers, were
killed on Monday at an Amman training compound by a Jordanian police officer who
fired on them before he was shot to death, the government said.

The shooting in the Jordanian capital immediately raised concerns of a possible
infiltration of the training program by anti-American militants. Jordan, a
United States ally, has been involved in the American-led aerial bombing
campaign against Islamic State targets in neighboring Syria and Iraq for the
past year.

Jordanian and American officials said it was premature to speculate on the
motive of the gunman, who was identified in official statements only as a
Jordanian police officer.

The Jordan Times newspaper quoted an unidentified relative of the assailant as
saying he was Anwar Abu Zaid, a 28-year-old police captain and university
graduate who was married with two children and was from the northern Jordanian
village of Rimoun. The newspaper said residents were in ''complete shock'' over
the shootings and described the assailant as ''a very kind person, who is
religious but moderate.''

A Jordanian government spokesman, Mohammad Momani, said in a statement that the
dead included two American trainers working with the Public Security Department
and a South African trainer. He said two Jordanian civil employees also were
killed, including one who died later from wounds suffered in the shooting.

Mr. Momani's statement also said that two American trainers and at least two
Jordanians had been wounded by the gunman, and that ''police forces dealt with
the incident and killed the attacker.''

In Washington, President Obama said that the United States was conducting a
''full investigation'' of the assault.

''We take this very seriously and we'll be working closely with the Jordanians
to determine exactly what happened,'' Mr. Obama told reporters in the Oval
Office, where they were gathered for the start of his meeting with Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. ''At this stage, I want to just let
everyone know that this is something we're paying close attention to, and at the
point where the families have been notified, obviously, our deepest condolences
will be going out to them.''

A statement from the Royal Court said King Abdullah II had visited the wounded
at the Hussein Medical Center in Amman.

The United States Embassy issued a statement after the shooting urging American
citizens to avoid the area ''for the time being.''

An American official, who asked not to be identified because he was describing
early reports, described the gunman as a Jordanian police officer who had been
fired. There was no immediate corroboration of that account.

A second American official who also spoke on condition of anonymity said the
assailant, armed with an AK-47, had come ''back to the base where he just
sprayed fire.''

''He didn't seem to be targeting anything in particular,'' the second official
said.

The timing of the training center attack -- 10 years after suicide bombers
attacked three hotels in Amman on Nov. 9, 2005, killing nearly 60 and wounding
more than 100 -- raised questions about whether there was a link.

During the 2005 attack, three suicide bombers tore through the lobby of the
Grand Hyatt Hotel, a wedding party at the Radisson SAS Hotel down the street,
and at the Days Inn Hotel several miles away, minutes apart. More than half of
the victims were Jordanians.

The State Department runs and finances the program at the Amman compound to
train Iraqi and Palestinian police officers.

John Kirby, a spokesman for the State Department, told reporters at a daily
briefing in Washington that the American victims had worked for DynCorp, a
private security company, and were so-called trainer monitors overseeing the
curriculum of the program, which has been in operation since 2008. Mr. Kirby did
not release the names of the victims.

The training compound is on the edges of Amman, in a neighborhood called
Muwaqqar, and staffed with instructors from the United States, Britain and
elsewhere, said Michael Herzog, a retired Israeli general and a fellow at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy.

Palestinians from government security forces and presidential guards have also
received training at the compound, Mr. Herzog said. It was not immediately clear
who was at the compound during the attacks.

In February, Jordan intensified airstrikes in Syria against the Islamic State,
also known as ISIS or ISIL, in retaliation for the immolation of one of its
pilots, First Lt. Moaz al-Kasasbeh, who was captured after his F-16 went down in
northern Syria.

Jordan and Turkey were the two countries in which the Pentagon based a $500
million program to train and equip Syrian opposition forces fighting the Islamic
State. That program was recently abandoned in favor of one to equip existing
opposition forces, primarily Arab fighters in eastern Syria. The C.I.A. also has
a covert program to train Syrian rebels in Jordan.

But the United States' Arab allies have been playing a less-active role in the
battle against the Islamic State recently. The United Arab Emirates carried out
its most recent strikes in Syria in March, Jordan in August and Saudi Arabia in
September, according to information provided by allied officials.

Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are now focusing on the battle against
Houthi rebels in Yemen, and Jordan has also diverted resources to the conflict
there in a demonstration of support for the Saudis. Jordan has said its
commitment to striking Islamic State targets has not wavered.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/middleeast/jordan-amman-attack.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%);
POLICE FORCES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); HEADS OF STATE &
GOVERNMENT (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT
(76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); FAMILY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%);
RELIGION (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (50%)

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (96%)

COUNTRY: JORDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%); IRAQ
(79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Convention Hosts Are Warned on Wi-Fi Blocking

BYLINE: By MARTHA C. WHITE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1193 words


Fed up with Internet charges that can range into six figures, more meeting
planners are instead using mobile hot spots to connect at conferences and
conventions. But their efforts have at times been stymied, when the venues have
electronically blocked the transmissions.

The Federal Communications Commission has recently been intervening in this
high-tech game of cat and mouse. Last week, the commission proposed a $718,000
fine against M. C. Dean, the company that provides Internet services at the
Baltimore Convention Center, over accusations that the company blocked Wi-Fi hot
spots, as well as a $25,000 fine against Hilton Worldwide Holdings for what the
agency called ''apparent obstruction of an investigation'' into Wi-Fi blocking.

''Clearly the F.C.C. has taken a legal position,'' said Bjorn Hanson, clinical
professor at the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality and Tourism at New
York University.

Last year, the commission fined Marriott International $600,000, then issued a
warning in January that blocking hot spots in hotels and ''other commercial
establishments'' was illegal. In August, the agency levied a $750,000 fine
against Smart City Holdings, a company that manages Internet services in 28
convention centers. Consumers have a right, the commission said, to use hot spot
technology like smartphones and wireless routers like MiFi without interference.

''It puts meeting planners in a better spot, because they know the F.C.C. is
behind them,'' said Eric Bracht, a senior consultant of audiovisual operations
at the consulting company Electro-Media Design Limited. ''Now they have some
backup.''

In response, the hospitality industry has countered that the commission has
overstepped its authority and has given poor guidance about how companies are
allowed to manage their Internet connectivity. Wi-Fi networks created by hot
spots, industry officials contend, are less secure and can interfere with their
in-house networks.

M. C. Dean said in a statement it planned to challenge the fine, and it and
Hilton have said they disagree with the agency's recent decisions. Marriott and
Smart City also issued statements after their settlements, maintaining that they
had broken no laws.

''From our point of view, we don't believe that M. C. Dean has done anything to
deliberately deceive our customers,'' said Peggy Daidakis, executive director of
the Baltimore Convention Center.

The hospitality industry has plenty to lose. While business travelers grumble
about having to pay $15 or $20 a night for Wi-Fi access at upscale hotels, those
charges are a drop in the bucket compared with what event planners pay for
Internet access in hotel conference space and convention centers.

Mr. Hanson estimated that hotels in the United States collected as much as half
a billion dollars in revenue from Internet charges last year.

''I did a meeting a few years ago in a convention center,'' said Donna
Jarvis-Miller, director of membership and events for the American Public Human
Services Association, who said the initial quote for Internet service gave the
association sticker shock.

''It was close to $30,000, and that was just to buy out just a section of the
convention center we were in,'' she said. Now, Ms. Jarvis-Miller said, she
brings in her own hot spot network for a small fraction of the cost. ''They've
offered to discount it deeply, but I'm always able to bring it in for less than
what they're offering,'' she said of her attempts to negotiate with hotels and
convention centers.

Even that lofty sum is a relative bargain, though, compared with what some
high-tech event producers pay. For the Consumer Electronics Show, which brings
about 175,000 people to three convention facilities in Las Vegas every January,
the bill for Internet access tops half a million dollars -- and that does not
include what the show's 3,600-plus exhibitors spend if they need individual
connections in their booths.

''It is expensive and each city has different rates,'' said Karen Chupka, a
senior vice president for the Consumer Electronics Association.

Factors influencing the rate include what kind of technology is available and
how recently it was added, she said, especially if the building is a public
facility -- as many convention centers are -- that is required to choose its
technology provider though a bidding process.

Ms. Chupka said technological factors like how much hard-line connectivity a
group needs in addition to Wi-Fi also affects how much a venue will charge.
Although Wi-Fi might work fine for checking email or conducting a brief product
demonstration, activities that demand more bandwidth or more security, like
transmitting a live broadcast or running credit cards, still often require wired
Internet access.

Since many convention centers outsource functions like their network management,
it can be harder for planners to haggle down the price of Internet access, but
the arrangement spares the center from having to finance technological upgrades
and might provide it with a commission as well.

''This last year, we've invested about $600,000 just upgrading our access
points,'' Ms. Daidakis said. ''I don't have it, as a city agency,'' she said,
whereas M. C. Dean can afford to make those kinds of big capital investments.

''Basically, you're looking at six figures or more to wire up the place, and
every couple of years you'll probably want to do another low six-figure
upgrade,'' said Ben Yalow, a recently retired information technology
professional with experience setting up and configuring networks in hotels and
convention centers.

''It is one thing convention centers are looking at and trying to figure out how
they can continue with the demand, because the demand is only growing,'' Ms.
Chupka of the Consumer Electronics Association said.

Ms. Daidakis said the Baltimore Convention Center received a 35 percent
commission on the Internet services that M. C. Dean sold to customers. It is
money that the center, which runs at a deficit, needs, she said. ''We have to
make up the gap between revenue and expenses, and we're looking at our business
partners.''

The upshot is that planners either negotiate down to an amount they can afford
or throw up their hands and go the hot spot route. Ms. Daidakis acknowledged
that most of the nonprofit trade association clients the center hosts did
receive a discount on the published rates for access, usually about 25 percent
or more.

Hospitality industry experts predicted that the F.C.C.'s recent actions would
force event facilities to become more competitive in their pricing, so as not to
lose out entirely on the Internet revenue stream.

''The Wi-Fi hot spots are certainly going to be more prevalent as people realize
they can use them,'' Mr. Bracht said. ''Since the F.C.C. has come down on the
side of the consumer, access will be a lot more discussed,'' and negotiations
will become more commonplace.

''I think the long-term solution is going to be that convention centers and
hotels drop their prices down to someplace reasonable,'' Mr. Yalow said.
''They're not going to make money off this the way they used to.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/mobile-hot-spots-fcc-hotels-conventio
n-centers.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Donna Jarvis-Miller, who directs events for the American Public
Human Services Association, brings in her own hot spot network for a small
fraction of the cost convention hosts charge. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW RYAN
WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); FINES &
PENALTIES (90%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%);
CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LODGING (89%); HOTELS &
MOTELS (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (89%);
HOSPITALITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (78%); HOTEL MEETING
FACILITIES (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); INTERNET SERVICE
PROVIDERS (76%); HOTEL CHAINS (75%); SMARTPHONES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW
(72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); TOURISM (69%);
COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR
TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); HILTON WORLDWIDE HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: MAR (NASDAQ) (84%); HLT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); SIC7011
HOTELS & MOTELS (84%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Appeals Court Deals Blow to Obama's Plans to Overhaul Immigration Rules

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and JULIA PRESTON; Michael D. Shear reported from
Washington, and Julia Preston from Dilley, Tex.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 764 words


WASHINGTON --  A federal appeals court said Monday that President Obama could
not move forward with his plans to overhaul immigration rules by providing up to
five million people with work permits and protection from deportation.

A three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit,
in New Orleans, ruled 2 to 1 against an appeal by the Obama administration,
saying a lawsuit brought by 26 states to block Mr. Obama's actions was likely to
succeed at trial.

The ruling is the latest blow to the president's efforts to circumvent
congressional inaction on immigration by using the power of his office to
reshape the way immigration laws are enforced.

But the ruling may have come just soon enough to allow Mr. Obama's lawyers to
appeal the decision to the Supreme Court for consideration next year.
Administration officials are hoping that the Supreme Court will overturn the
lower-court rulings and let the president carry out his immigration program.

Patrick Rodenbush, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said the
administration would seek to resolve the litigation quickly so immigration
authorities could prioritize ''the removal of the worst offenders, not people
who have long ties to the United States and who are raising American children.''

Lawyers for the administration had been expecting the Fifth Circuit ruling to go
against the president, partly because of the high number of judges in that
circuit appointed by Republican presidents.

Mr. Obama announced last November that he would use his executive authority to
effectively stop deporting the undocumented parents of American children. That
program -- known as Deferred Action for Parents of Americans -- would also allow
the parents to work legally in the United States.

Before the effort began, it was blocked in February by a Federal District Court
judge in Texas, who ruled that allowing millions of illegal immigrants to remain
lawfully in the United States would prove costly to the State of Texas, the lead
plaintiff in the case. The judge also said the government had not followed the
proper procedures for enacting the new immigration rules.

Writing for the two judges in the majority, Judge Jerry E. Smith found that
Texas had established that it was in a strong legal position to bring the
lawsuit because it would be harmed by new costs for issuing driver's licenses to
immigrants. He also found that the program would undercut the will of Congress.

''Congress did not intend to make immune from judicial review an agency action
that reclassifies millions of illegal aliens in a way that imposes substantial
costs on states,'' Judge Smith wrote. He rejected the administration's argument
that the program was just an expansion of an immigration enforcement policy
intended to make efficient use of limited resources.

Ken Paxton, the Texas attorney general, hailed the ruling in a statement.
''Today, the Fifth Circuit asserted that the separation of powers remains the
law of the land, and the president must follow the rule of law, just like
everybody else,'' he said. ''Texas, leading a charge of 26 states, has secured
an important victory to put a halt to the president's lawlessness.''

In the last several weeks, administration officials and other supporters of the
immigration actions had expressed frustration that the appeals court had taken
so long to rule. If the Fifth Circuit court had waited too long to allow an
appeal to the Supreme Court, Mr. Obama's hopes of carrying out his program
before he leaves office in 2017 would have all but ended. As it stands, if the
Supreme Court overturns the lower-court rulings, the administration would have
only a few months to begin signing people up.

Marielena Hincapié, the executive director of the National Immigration Law
Center, said that while the appeals court ruling might be seen as another defeat
for her cause, ''the silver lining is that this is just in the nick of time for
the administration to go to the Supreme Court.''

Mr. Obama has asserted that the immigration program would merely direct federal
agents not to enforce deportation laws against a certain group of people. But
the appeals court suggested that the president had exceeded his authority by
using the program to grant benefits without a congressional mandate.

In a blunt dissent, Judge Carolyn King said the two other judges, as well as
Judge Andrew S. Hanen, the District Court judge, had misstated the basic facts
of the case. She accused her colleagues of basing their decisions on
''conjecture, intuition or preconception.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/politics/appeals-court-deals-blow-to-obamas
-immigration-plans.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); APPEALS COURTS (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (92%); US
PRESIDENTS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); APPEALS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%);
PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LAW
COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
(89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); JUDGES (89%); DEPORTATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN
PARTY (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS
(77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (58%); DRIVERS LICENSES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. Senator Seeks to Forge Path for Change

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ON WASHINGTON; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1012 words


WASHINGTON --  Nothing touches off a political war in the Senate like proposals
to tinker with the arcane rules that govern the often creaky chamber. Talk of
eliminating the filibuster is called the nuclear option for a reason.

But Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the cerebral former Republican
governor and cabinet member, may have come up with a novel approach to winning
support for the changes that many, if not most, of his colleagues agree are
overdue -- and to enact them without starting the congressional equivalent of
Armageddon.

His idea? Use the next few months to develop, debate and approve proposals to
make the Senate more efficient, but then agree not to institute the changes
until 2017 -- after next year's election. With no certainty about which party
will win the majority next November, the thinking goes, both Republicans and
Democrats might be enticed to roll the dice and embrace changes since there
would not be an obvious advantage to advance for either party.

''We think we are more likely to get a consensus that way,'' said Mr. Alexander,
who is working with five fellow Republicans to explore what can be done to
improve how the Senate does -- or does not -- function.

His goal is to institute changes with the support of at least 67 senators, the
traditional threshold, as opposed to the simple majority Democrats employed two
years ago to weaken filibusters against Obama administration nominees.

Democrats, currently in the minority, are open to the concept.

''Now that each side has served in the minority and majority, we can come at it
from both perspectives,'' said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, expected to be
the Democratic leader in 2017. ''We could come up with something good.''

The move would represent a risk for both parties, one they might later regret
should their power be diluted if they come out on the wrong end of the election.
But there is a growing sense that something serious needs to be done to make the
Senate more functional, or its public image will continue to decline.

''It is hard to get here, and it is hard to stay here,'' Mr. Alexander said of
the Senate. ''And while you are here, you might as well amount to something.
Most senators would like to have a more productive Senate.''

The intensifying discussion of revamping Senate rules comes as House Republicans
are clamoring for their Senate comrades to use their majority status to
unilaterally bust the filibuster so they can send more politically charged bills
like a repeal of the Affordable Care Act to President Obama's desk. But to many
Senate Republicans, it makes no sense to take such a provocative step to simply
send a bill to the White House, only to see it vetoed.

Mr. Alexander said he used to believe that a ''change in behavior'' was all that
was needed to make the Senate more productive. But he has come around to the
idea that structural changes are necessary given the rise in partisanship that
has tied the Senate in knots.

''The changes we are likely to settle on probably won't be complicated. The
Senate is complicated enough,'' he said. ''I still think you want a United
States Senate that stops and thinks when the passions of the country are
overwhelming the House of Representatives. But there could be a Senate that is
more efficient. There is too much dead time on the Senate floor.''

Part of the Senate's problem revolves around the ''motion to proceed,'' a once
routine vote to put a bill or nomination on the floor that has become a favorite
target of those wanting to slam on the brakes. Senator Mitch McConnell of
Kentucky, the current majority leader, was a pioneer of filibustering the motion
to proceed, and Democrats this year embraced that approach to hold up
appropriations bills and other legislation.

Under various proposals, the ability to filibuster the preliminary motion,
particularly on appropriations bills, would be eliminated, allowing a measure to
at least come up for debate. Backers of the idea believe that once a bill hits
the floor and lawmakers get a chance to shape it, they will be less inclined to
block a final vote. However, it would still be subject to a filibuster on final
passage, meaning 41 senators could kill it.

Another potential area of change is the requirement that extensive amounts of
time must lapse before the Senate can act, such as the mandatory ''intervening
day'' between filing a motion to cut off debate and holding the vote on it. The
idea of guaranteeing a minimum number of amendments for each side on bills is
also being considered.

Mr. Alexander and his Republican colleagues -- Senators Roy Blunt of Missouri,
chairman of the Rules Committee, and Cory Gardner of Colorado, James Lankford of
Oklahoma, Ben Sasse of Nebraska and Thom Tillis of North Carolina, all freshmen
-- have been meeting with legislative experts on Senate procedures, including
Dave Shiappa and Martin B. Gold, former floor officials.

They intend to present their recommendations to Senate Republicans soon and then
reach out to Democrats who have expressed interest in changes to rules,
including Senators Jeff Merkley of Oregon, Tom Udall of New Mexico and Mr.
Schumer.

The continuing talks might not mollify Republicans frustrated by the Senate's
frequent state of suspended animation. But Mr. Alexander cautioned those who
want to kill the filibuster now that Republicans control the House and Senate.
Since World War II, he noted, Republicans have controlled the House, Senate and
White House for just six years compared with 22 for Democrats, who not long ago
had a 60-vote, filibuster-proof Senate majority.

''Conservatives need to remember that having complete Democratic control without
a filibuster is how we got Obamacare and how we could lose the right-to-work
laws in the two dozen states that now have them,'' he said. ''If a freight train
ran through the House, it would just keep running through the Senate.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/politics/lamar-alexander-seeks-path-to-chan
ge-in-senate.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, last month at
the Capitol. ''There is too much dead time on the Senate floor,'' he says.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ZACH GIBSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILIBUSTER (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%);
POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS &
ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); VETO (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); US
PRESIDENTS (69%); MINORITY GROUPS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (89%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Creditors Delay Release of Greek Bailout Funds

BYLINE: By NIKI KITSANTONIS; James Kanter contributed reporting from Brussels.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 701 words


ATHENS --  Greece's international bailout program has hit snags, delaying
release of the next payout of rescue money.

Despite a weekend of negotiations by telephone, Greek officials and the
country's foreign creditors remained at odds. At a meeting in Brussels on
Monday, eurozone finance ministers debated whether Athens had met the first set
of conditions to unlock the next installment of the bailout of 86 billion euros
(about $92 billion).

The ministers decided to delay the release of the payout, a sum of ?2 billion,
but indicated it might be dispensed soon.

Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the head of the eurozone finance ministers, used his
Twitter account after the meeting to reinforce pressure on Athens to meet its
targets, saying  there had been a ''commitment of the Greek authorities to
fulfill the required measures in the course of the week.''

Greece is not as desperate for money as it was last summer when the bailout
package was negotiated and it received an initial allotment of ?13 billion. But
the country is eager to secure the new tranche so that it can start addressing
domestic problems and ensure that state coffers do not start running low again.

More crucial is that each delay could have a cascading effect, throwing off the
schedule for future steps -- including talks on giving Greece some relief from
its debt burden, which is expected to exceed 180 percent of gross domestic
product this year. Also hanging in the balance is the release of ?10 billion in
bailout money that has been set aside to replenish Greece's cash-starved banks.

The Greek Parliament has already agreed to a series of economic changes in moves
approved last week and in the middle of last month.

As the Greek finance minister, Euclid Tsakalotos, arrived in Brussels on Monday,
Greek officials refused to provide details about the deadlock, citing the
delicate nature of the negotiations. But one main sticking point is over how
much protection against foreclosure to give Greece's many overly indebted
holders of home mortgages.

''We're optimistic, we've come closer on several issues, but we're still
committed to protecting primary residences,'' one official said, on condition of
anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly.

The Greek economy minister, Giorgos Stathakis, who participated in the marathon
of negotiations over the weekend, told Greek radio on Monday that Athens was
seeking a ''political solution'' to ensure that thousands of Greeks did not lose
their homes.

The Greek prime minister, Alexis Tsipras, broached the issue Sunday afternoon in
telephone calls with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, President François
Hollande of France and the president of the European Commission, Jean-Claude
Juncker.

Greek homeowners who are having trouble making loan payments are among the
problems plaguing the country's banks. But Mr. Tsipras argued that protecting
Greek families from losing their homes was necessary to ensuring social cohesion
in his country, according to a statement from the prime minister's office.

The French finance minister, Michel Sapin, said on Monday that Greece should be
given some room to maneuver on the foreclosure issue. ''Greece is making
considerable efforts,'' Mr. Sapin said before the meeting.

Resistance to continued austerity in Greece is growing. Farmers, seamen and
pharmacists are among those who have staged protests in recent weeks. On
Thursday, thousands of Greeks are expected to walk off the job, disrupting
public services and transportation, in a general strike.

The 24-hour walkout would be the first general strike under the government of
Mr. Tsipras's leftist Syriza party, which came to power in January on a promise
to fight austerity and was re-elected in September on a pledge to enforce the
country's third international bailout while trying to soften its harsher
aspects.

Mr. Tsipras and the other European leaders on Sunday also discussed the region's
refugee crisis, which Greece is struggling to contain because of its position at
the front line of the influx.

Greek officials have suggested in recent weeks that creditors should ease
austerity demands as the government grapples with the refugee problem.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/international/greece-bailout-eurozone
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Luis de Guindos, Spain's economy minister, left, and Euclid
Tsakalotos in Brussels on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIER HOSLET/EUROPEAN
PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (93%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GREEK
DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%);
EURO (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES &
TREASURIES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC
NEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%);
MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); HEADS OF
STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); POLITICS (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); FRENCH
PRESIDENTS (62%); GERMAN CHANCELLORS (62%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE JUNCKER (79%); ALEXIS TSIPRAS (79%); ANGELA MERKEL (79%);
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (60%)

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%)

COUNTRY: GREECE (98%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM
(91%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Obama Starts Personal Facebook Page

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg.

LENGTH: 493 words


The leader of the free world now has a personal Facebook page, and more than
45,000 people clicked ''like'' on it in the first hour it was live on Monday.

It seems unlikely that a man whose daily schedule often includes meetings with
world leaders and briefings on national security will have much time to post
pictures of his meals or comment on pet photos. But as The Times reported this
week, Mr. Obama now has a 20-member social media team at the White House that
aims to bring more spontaneity and accessibility to the presidency, a position
that has become highly choreographed and constricted in modern times.

''President Obama. Public Figure.'' That is what the new Facebook page says, its
birth announced just after 1:21 p.m. Monday on The White House Twitter account.

BREAKING: @POTUS just launched his Facebook page! Take a walk with him in his
backyard at https://t.co/Pq2X1BVaWU. pic.twitter.com/lo5Dc4IeO5 -- The White
House (@WhiteHouse) November 9, 2015

The first item for Nov. 9 invited readers to ''take a walk'' with the president
on the White House grounds.

''Hello, Facebook! I finally got my very own page,'' Mr. Obama's posting said.
''I hope you'll think of this as a place where we can have real conversations
about the most important issues facing our country -- a place where you can hear
directly from me, and share your own thoughts and stories. (You can expect some
just-for-fun stuff, too.)''

It was the latest foray for the president into social media, after he started
actively tweeting from his @potus Twitter account  in May. It now draws about
five million followers. And his political campaigns have long run accounts in
his name on both Facebook and Twitter, with occasional signed posts from him.

Mr. Obama's new Facebook timeline takes readers through an autobiographical trip
down memory lane, from the photograph of his wedding to Michelle Obama in
Chicago in 1992 to his 2009 swearing-in ceremony as the 44th president of the
United States. The older items quickly attracted likes and comments as well.

In the About column, President Obama is described as ''Dad, husband, and 44th
President of the United States. Comments and messages received through this
account may be archived: wh.gov/privacy.''

''I'm kicking it off by inviting you to take a walk with me in my backyard --
something I try to do at the end of the day before I head in for dinner,'' he
said by way of introduction in his first posting.

He then invited readers to weigh in with questions and comments about climate
change, mentioning that he is on his way to Paris to meet with world leaders on
a global agreement.

''I hope you'll join me in speaking out on climate change and educating your
friends about why this issue is so important. At a time when nearly three in
four adults online use Facebook, this feels like a great place to do it. Share
your thoughts in the comments, and pass this message on to folks you think need
to see it.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/politics/obama-starts-personal-facebook-pag
e.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA
(89%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (76%); CAMPAIGNS &
ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICS (69%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (65%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); TWITTER INC (84%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); TWTR (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%)

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing | Middle East; Egypt: Reporter's Detention Extended, Heightening
Concerns About Rights

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM; David Kirkpatrick contributed reporting from Cairo.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 508 words


SHARM EL SHEIKH, Egypt -- Egyptian military prosecutors on Monday extended the
detention of Hossam Bahgat, an investigative journalist and the founder of
Egypt's leading human rights organization, in a sign that the government is
moving to bring him to trial on charges of publishing false news harmful to
national security.

Mr. Bahgat, 36, was interrogated for hours on Sunday by military investigators
about an article he wrote describing the convictions of 26 military officers
accused of plotting a coup against the government of President Abdel Fattah
el-Sisi. On Sunday night, he was moved to a secret detention center, and on
Monday, prosecutors told his lawyers he would be held for four more days.

The detention of Mr. Bahgat has raised new concerns about the government's zeal
to repress any dissent and prompted an outcry from human rights groups in Egypt
and abroad. The United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, said Monday that
he was ''concerned'' about Mr. Bahgat's arrest, calling it ''the latest in a
series of detentions of human rights defenders and others that are profoundly
worrying,'' according to a briefing by Mr. Ban's spokesman.

A statement on Monday signed by 13 Egyptian human rights groups called for Mr.
Bahgat's ''immediate and unconditional release'' and said he had been
''arbitrarily detained solely for the peaceful expression of his views.''

The statement said that Mr. Bahgat's secret, pretrial detention violated Egypt's
press law and Constitution. The charges he faces, including ''deliberately
spreading false information,'' carry sentences of up to three years, the
statement said.

Among the groups that signed the statement was the Egyptian Initiative for
Personal Rights, which Mr. Bahgat founded in 2002.

Since leaving human rights work and focusing on a career in journalism, Mr.
Bahgat has quickly distinguished himself as Egypt's foremost investigative
reporter, writing for Mada Masr, an online publication.

His arrest came just weeks after Mr. Sisi pardoned journalists from Al Jazeera's
English news network who had been imprisoned for more than a year. Egyptian
officials and even Mr. Sisi had strongly suggested that they viewed the
international opprobrium over the prosecution of the journalists as an unwanted
nuisance.

On Monday, international solidarity campaigns geared up in support of Mr.
Bahgat, and it appeared that Egypt would be confronted with a new round of
international criticism, at a time when the government was already facing
questions about the crash of a Russian passenger jet in the Sinai Peninsula.

''This is a bellwether moment for Egypt,'' Sarah Leah Whitson, the Middle East
director at Human Rights Watch, said in a statement by the group on Monday.
''Continuing to hold Hossam Bahgat or putting him on trial would be a definitive
signal that President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi and his government have no interest
in rolling back the repression of the past two years.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/middleeast/egypt-extends-detention-of-a-
journalist-hossam-bahgat.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (92%); MILITARY OFFENSES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS
(90%); MILITARY COURTS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); MILITARY &
VETERANS LAW (89%); ARRESTS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS
VIOLATIONS (78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS
(77%); LAWYERS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY
(73%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (72%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (72%); PARDONS (71%);
COUPS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: ABDEL FATTAH EL-SISSI (92%); BAN KI-MOON (67%)

STATE: SINAI PENINSULA, EGYPT (79%)

COUNTRY: EGYPT (99%); MIDDLE EAST (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Donald Trump Advertises Rising Value of Free Political Publicity

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Politics; Pg.

LENGTH: 1162 words


Donald J. Trump hosted ''Saturday Night Live'' this past weekend and gave
interviews to at least four national television networks on Sunday. The result:
an opportunity to reach millions of potential voters, without spending a dime.

In fact, while many of his Republican presidential rivals have poured money into
the airwaves in search of such exposure, Mr. Trump has not spent any money at
all on television advertising since he announced his candidacy in June. Yet he
has remained at or near the top of most national and state polls for months.

''TV ads are necessary, they can be effective, but in terms of overall value,
being the host of 'Saturday Night Live' is probably going to get you a lot more
as a candidate than 20 'super PAC' ads,'' said Dave Levinthal, senior political
reporter at the Center for Public Integrity.

Thirty-second television commercials were once signs of a confident,
well-financed candidacy for the White House. Now they are seen as a last resort
of struggling campaigns that have not mastered the art of attracting the free
media coverage that has lifted the political fortunes of insurgent campaigns
like those of Mr. Trump and Ben Carson, a retired neurosurgeon who has surged to
the top of the polls.

Mr. Trump's ability to command media attention and reach voters without
depleting his campaign funds is just the latest example of the way that his
campaign has upended the conventional approach candidates have used to
communicate with voters.

In addition to having done countless interviews, Mr. Trump has been effective in
using social media to attack his rivals, and many of his acrid and controversial
quips on Twitter are rebroadcast by traditional news media outlets.

''I think he's found ways to gain print and airtime by being available and
quotable,'' said Mike Schreurs, the founder and chief executive of Strategic
America, a marketing and advertising firm based in Iowa. ''He's probably a more
sophisticated user of media than any other presidential candidate we've ever
seen.''

Always a boon for campaigns, free media -- or earned media, as it is sometimes
called -- has become increasingly important this cycle for several reasons. Mr.
Trump, a businessman turned reality-TV star turned politician, has commanded
much of the media's attention that otherwise could have gone to his rivals,
without having to spend any money on television ads so far. (Last week, however,
he went up with his first round of paid media -- and opted for radio instead of
television).

The crowded Republican field is another factor in the diminished importance of
paid advertising. Positive ads in particular, which campaigns and outside groups
typically use early in the election cycle, have been less effective in breaking
through the clutter.

''In a big field like this, positive advertising has less value than you do in a
two- or three-person race,'' said Russ Schriefer, a media consultant who works
for the campaign of Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey. ''So I think what you're
seeing is people spending a lot of money on positives, and they're not really
moving numbers, particularly if those people have high name ID to begin with.''

At this point in 2011, Republican candidates and outside groups had spent
roughly $6.7 million, compared with roughly $35 million this cycle, according to
Kantar Media/CMAG, which tracks political advertising. But the influx of money
this primary season, strategists and operatives say, has not necessarily yielded
large gains in the polls.

Paid advertising right now, said Elizabeth Wilner, senior vice president for
political advertising at Kantar Media, ''is more of a show of weakness than
strength.''

Paid television ads have so far failed to buoy foundering campaigns or to
provide struggling candidates much help in the polls the way the did in previous
election cycles. Between January and the end of October, for instance, Hillary
Rodham Clinton and Jeb Bush, and the outside groups supporting Mr. Bush, ran the
most paid ads: 7,539 for Mrs. Clinton and 7,465 for Mr. Bush, according to an
analysis by the Center for Public Integrity and Kantar Media/CMAG.

Yet Mrs. Clinton's and Mr. Bush's poll numbers dropped throughout the spring and
summer. (Mrs. Clinton's ratings have since started to rebound, but Mr. Bush's
numbers have remained low.)

And Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin dropped out of the race just as a super PAC
supporting him went on a $17 million spending spree.

The campaigns are quick to acknowledge the value of free media. Alex Conant, a
spokesman for Senator Marco Rubio's campaign, said its candidate -- a young,
telegenic Cuban-American -- is one of the most effective tools it has to reach
voters directly.

''We put him out there,'' Mr. Conant said. ''Whenever he's on TV, that's a good
moment for our campaign.''

Some campaigns even track their earned media impressions, paying attention to
which media markets and programs in the early nominating states have the best
ratings with the candidate's target voters. Mr. Rubio's team uses that
information to help determine which television appearances he will make.

Outside groups and the parties themselves are also paying more attention to
driving free media coverage.

''We don't have a candidate who can go out there and make news, so we have to
figure out what's going on and figure out how we can inject our messaging into
what is going on in the news,'' said Colin Reed, the executive director of
America Rising, a Republican super PAC.

Television ads are still important, Mr. Reed added, but ''people are getting
their information from social media and different ways, as opposed to just
television ads.''

And though the Republican National Committee has run several targeted cable ads
against Mrs. Clinton, its focus is on building on an existing research file
against her from her 2008 run, and trying to place a steady stream of negative
stories about her, hoping to fan a perception that she is not trustworthy and
does not care about average Americans.

''With Hillary, the 'drip, drip, drip,' as she refers to it, just reinforces the
narrative, so it doesn't have to be a $20 million ad,'' said Sean Spicer, a
spokesman for the committee.

Priorities USA, the Democratic super PAC supporting Mrs. Clinton, is similarly
making more of an effort than in 2012 to inject itself in the daily media mix,
in part to combat all the Republican candidates -- and outside groups --
attacking her.

Of course, earned media has always functioned in concert with paid advertising,
and operatives believe that negative ads could upend the dynamic yet again.

''The real question with paid media will be when the candidates start to spend
that money attacking one another, and what impact does that have,'' Mr.
Schriefer of the Christie campaign said.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/politics/donald-trump-advertises-rising-val
ue-of-free-political-publicity.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); BROADCAST
ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING
(90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY
(90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CELEBRITIES
(78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF
GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); INTERNET
SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%);
CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); SOCIAL MEDIA
(63%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (92%); BEN CARSON (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Rat Pack Persona in the Digital Age

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 491 words


Don't watch ''Donny!'' because it might make you laugh. Then you'll hate
yourself for liking a sitcom that stars an advertising executive, and a
moderately annoying one at that.

''Donny!,'' which begins Tuesday night on USA, features Donny Deutsch, who made
a name (and apparently a fortune) for himself as head of the Deutsch advertising
agency. Then he transitioned into nonfiction television, most notably as host of
''The Big Idea With Donny Deutsch,'' a CNBC talk show that dealt with various
examples of and ideas about success.

But ''Donny!'' is no talk show. It's a scripted comedy (with dashes of
improvisation) about a talk show whose host, Donny Deutsch, is played by Mr.
Deutsch. Yes, this rips off ''The Larry Sanders Show'' and to some extent ''Curb
Your Enthusiasm,'' and it's not nearly as good as either of those. But it has a
certain crass, infuriating charm.

Mr. Deutsch is somewhere between Fox News's Gretchen Carlson (don't ever rent
''Persecuted'') and Oprah Winfrey (Oscar-nominated) on the spectrum of talk-show
or news personalities who have tried acting. In other words, though he's no
actor, he's good enough for the premise.

Partly this is because he is asked to do little more than be an obnoxious, cocky
version of his somewhat less obnoxious, cocky self. His character is a Rat Pack
personality transplanted to the Internet age: He thinks that he's much cooler
than he is and that he ''gets it'' -- whatever the ''it'' of a given episode is
-- much more than he does.

In the premiere, for instance, he does an exploitative, scolding interview on
his TV show with a woman burned by sexting, yet off the air he indulges in his
own version of sexting, which he doesn't recognize as sexting. ''Some people
sext,'' he tells his assistants. ''I send a suggestive pic.''

Speaking of those assistants, Donny's self-image requires that he be surrounded
by attractive women, including his executive producer (Emily Tarver) and three,
count 'em, three young aides (Jessica Renee Russell, Meera Rohit Kumbhani and
Hailey Giles). All of them spend most of their time trying to keep him from
imploding, with only limited success.

It's hard to know where the real Donny Deutsch leaves off and the fictional one
begins. Mr. Deutsch seems to spend a lot of time shirtless -- is that real Donny
showing off his physique, which is pretty good for a guy in his late 50s, or
fake Donny being an egomaniac?

But that vacillating line is the very point of the show. The meta thing isn't as
fresh as it once was, but there are some decent laughs here. (Those three
assistants are quite funny.) But be warned that they are decidedly lowbrow
laughs, at least in the early going. Episode 2, in which Donny makes an effort
to date ''age-appropriate'' women (Christie Brinkley guest stars) and the
subject of manscaping comes up, may leave you with mental images that require
removal by a professional therapist. Come on, Donny; aim higher.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/arts/television/review-donny-deutschs-donny-a-
crass-infuriating-talk-show-host.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Donny!: Christie Brinkley and Donny Deutsch in this USA comedy
series, beginning Tuesday night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIOVANNI RUFINO/USA NETWORK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%);
TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); SEXTING (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TEXT
MESSAGING (85%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%);
INTERVIEWS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS
AWARDS (71%); ACADEMY AWARDS (66%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Invitation List Looms as Test for Syria Talks

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 604 words


When world powers gather in Vienna this weekend to discuss a possible postwar
political deal for Syria, one of the main points of contention will be to
determine whom to include among opposition groups in future negotiations -- and
the West may back groups that are less than ''moderate,'' Britain's top diplomat
said on Monday.

''In my judgment, people we should be talking to will include people who have a
vision for the future of Syria that is different from ours, a vision that we
will not agree with,'' the British foreign secretary, Philip Hammond, said in an
interview at The New York Times.

''But if those are people who are prepared to argue their case, who are prepared
to test their vision at the ballot box and are prepared to accept the decision
of the Syrian people and take part in a democratic debate, then my view is that
we should include them,'' he said.

No Syrian groups have been invited to the talks in Vienna on Saturday, just as
none attended the first round two weeks ago. Those talks were led by Russia and
the United States, and attended by top diplomats from Saudi Arabia and Iran, the
regional rivals with a stake in the conflict.

Iran insists on defining which groups count as ''terrorists'' in Syria. Its
foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, announced at a news conference with his
visiting Belgian counterpart in Tehran on Monday that talks in Vienna would have
to draw up such a list. ''First is determining which groups are terrorists,
which is clear to us,'' Mr. Zarif told reporters, according to Agence
France-Presse. ''And then agreeing on how to proceed from there.''

The diplomatic standoff over who is a terrorist and who counts as a legitimate
opposition group comes on top of the significant differences that remain on the
future of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. Russia and Iran want to leave open
the possibility that Mr. Assad can stand for election once more. The United
States, Britain and their Persian Gulf allies resolutely oppose that idea.

The Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, during a visit to Armenia on
Monday, said that the talks should concern themselves with who should represent
the Syrian opposition and who should be considered extremists, instead of
whether to replace Mr. Assad, The Associated Press reported. As for which
opposition group is legitimate, Mr. Assad has dismissed all his armed rivals as
terrorists, and Russia, his most powerful backer, has largely supported his
assertion. Indeed, over the last five weeks, Russian airstrikes have repeatedly
attacked positions of several Western-backed groups.

Mr. Hammond also said that his government suspected that the Islamic State or
operatives ''inspired'' by the organization were behind the destruction of a
Russian airliner in Egypt on Oct. 31. He added that he hoped that would persuade
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to take a more flexible posture in the
Syria talks.

''We'll see whether the Russians now double down or whether they decide that
they never wanted to be too deeply engaged anyway in Syria and that this is a
warning shot to them and we'll sense a greater willingness to engage in the
talks in Vienna this coming Saturday,'' he said.

While Mr. Hammond declined to offer any details on which groups could eventually
take part in political negotiations, his comments suggested that the West might
be prepared to back Sunni Islamist groups with close ties to allies, including
Saudi Arabia. ''What we mean by a secular constitution, and what people in the
Muslim world will understand by secular will be two different things,'' Mr.
Hammond said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/middleeast/invitation-list-looms-as-test
-for-syria-talks.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); FOREIGN
RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ISLAMIC
STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL
CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); FOREIGN POLICY
(70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%)

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (69%)

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (52%)

COUNTRY: SYRIA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%);
UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); ARMENIA (79%); SAUDI
ARABIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); GULF STATES (70%); IRAN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ackman's Enigmatic Investment Philosophy

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words


William A. Ackman, the activist investor, has described his billion-dollar bet
and continuing crusade against the nutritional supplements company Herbalife as
a ''moral obligation.'' In at least one presentation, he nearly cried onstage
and said that if his Herbalife trade was successful, he would give the profits
to charity because he would consider them ''blood money.''

Over the years, Mr. Ackman has made the case that his investments are guided by
a strict moral code. He says he believes that Herbalife is a pyramid scheme
targeting low-income people, and has resolved to bring it down because people
hurt by the company ''are not in a position to defend themselves.'' He has also
said he won't invest in Coca-Cola because, ''I think it's bad for children and
bad for people.''

And yet Mr. Ackman has spent the last several weeks defending his investment in
Valeant, a pharmaceutical company whose financial practices have come under
scrutiny and that is under federal investigation for its drug pricing and
distribution practices. In two cases, Valeant acquired two old heart drugs and
increased their prices, one by more than 500 percent and the other by more than
200 percent.

''The biggest regret I have with Valeant is that we're not in a position to buy
more,'' Mr. Ackman told his investors in a call on Monday. In a letter to
Valeant's chief executive, J. Michael Pearson, he said, ''You are one of the
most shareholder-oriented C.E.O.s I know. You have assured me that you and the
rest of the board are considering any and all alternatives that would benefit
shareholders and other stakeholders. That is very comforting to us.''

What?

How can Mr. Ackman find comfort in Valeant's management -- which has expanded
its business by buying rival companies, slashing their research and development
arms and then raising drug prices -- while at the same time calling Herbalife's
chief executive ''a predator'' running a ''a criminal enterprise''?

When I reached Mr. Ackman on Monday, he told me, ''The premise of your entire
article is false.'' He said it made no sense to compare Herbalife to Valeant.
More on that in a moment.

This column is not meant to judge Herbalife or Valeant as investments. Nor is it
a judgment on the tactics of Mr. Ackman and other investors who made big bets
against stocks -- selling them short, in Wall Street parlance -- and then
publicizing those bets. (Herbalife has fought back against Mr. Ackman, not only
denying his accusations but asking the government to investigate his hedge fund,
Pershing Square Capital Management, for market manipulation.)

Instead, it is worth taking note of the confounding, and at times contradictory
views of Mr. Ackman, one of the market's most influential investors, whose fund
was up more than 40 percent last year. Mr. Ackman's moves are closely followed
by fellow activists and mutual funds, notwithstanding missteps like his
investment in J. C. Penney and now Valeant. (This year, after a steep fall in
Valeant's share price, his fund has dropped nearly 20 percent.)

Forbes magazine compared him to Warren E. Buffett, putting him on its cover with
the headline ''Baby Buffett.'' It is a comparison, of course, that Mr. Ackman
welcomes and sometimes makes himself. ''The structure of Pershing Square
historically is one that is used by many hedge funds, but it's really much more
similar to Berkshire Hathaway in terms of approach,'' Mr. Ackman has written.

More recently, he likened Valeant's acquisitive business model to Berkshire's, a
comparison that drew the ire of Mr. Buffett's partner, Charlie Munger. Mr.
Munger told Bloomberg News that Valeant was engaged in ''price-gouging'' and was
''deeply immoral.''

Mr. Ackman is no charlatan; he genuinely believes what he says. But he also
seems to be able to compartmentalize his views and rationalize his investment
philosophy in contradictory ways. His declaration that he will never own
Coca-Cola because its products are unhealthy is tough to square with his
ownership of a position in Burger King.

Wall Street is fascinated by Mr. Ackman because he makes big, bold bets and is
never shy about talking about them. He is seemingly interested only in home
runs, which means he's also likely to strike out with some frequency.

He is also willing to push the boundaries of traditional investment conventions:
Last year, he teamed up with Valeant to try to buy Allergan, and had acquired
more than $1 billion of its shares in advance of the takeover offer. The moves
caused some people, including this columnist, to question whether the law should
allow such a maneuver.

Andrew Left, the analyst at Citron Research, first raised flags about Valeant,
and has also noted the difficulty in squaring Mr. Ackman's short position in
Herbalife and his big investment in Allergan.

''If Mr. Ackman feels so much moral indignation about a company selling health
shakes to people and takes such umbrage at their sales channel that he launches
a full-on jihad against them,'' said Mr. Left, ''how can he stand by a company
that charges $300,000 a year to cure Wilson's disease?''

On Monday, Mr. Ackman said he wasn't defending Valeant on moral grounds. ''If it
turns out Pearson has been found to have committed a crime, he'll be out,'' he
said. But, Mr. Ackman added, ''He shouldn't be convicted unless he's proven
guilty.''

He went on to say, ''Valeant makes products that save and improve lives and no
one has questioned the efficacy of its products.'' (He added that Herbalife's
model, on the other hand, is based on a questionable business opportunity for
the prospective sellers and the dubious efficacy of its products.)

Mr. Ackman said he believed that Valeant's business model and management had
been badly mischaracterized by the media. He believes that Valeant's strategy of
cutting research and development budgets has been wildly overstated, suggesting
the company only eliminates wasteful research and development. Still, he
acknowledged, ''I'm not a supporter or defender of buying drugs and marking them
up'' and noted that Valeant had pledged to stop the practice.

As for not investing in Coke but owning Burger King, he compared Burger King to
a supermarket. ''I wouldn't be against owning a supermarket and they sell
Coke,'' he said, drawing a distinction between soda, which he believes has no
redeemable value, and a business that sells many products and allows consumers
to make their own choice.

In a call with clients on Monday, Mr. Ackman said he recognized that given his
high profile and his disappointing Valeant investments, he was in the cross
hairs: ''We're prepared to accept a fair degree of snide comments in the
press.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/dealbook/ackmans-enigmatic-investment
-philosophy.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William Ackman, chief of Pershing Square Capital Management,
describes his opposition to Herbalife as a ''moral obligation,'' yet he has
praise for Valeant's business model. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MISHA FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DRUG PRICES (87%); SHAREHOLDERS
(86%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY
(73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PRICE CHANGES
(71%); PYRAMID SCHEMES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%);
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (61%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (55%); PHARMACEUTICAL
PREPARATION MFG (52%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (56%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED
SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%)

PERSON: BILL ACKMAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Canadian Pacific Is Said to Be Weighing a Deal

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 664 words


If at first Canadian Pacific could not succeed in buying a fellow railroad
operator, it looks prepared to try again with another target.

Canadian Pacific has held preliminary discussions with Norfolk Southern, one of
only a handful of operators that control the roughly 95,000 miles of top-quality
railroad tracks in the United States, a person briefed on the matter said on
Monday.

Canadian Pacific, one of Canada's biggest railroad operators, has also hired
advisers.

Still, the two railroads ultimately may not reach a deal, this person cautioned.
In a statement on Monday afternoon, Canadian Pacific said that it had no
''material news'' to report at the moment, and declined to comment further. A
spokesman for Norfolk Southern declined to comment.

If a deal is reached, it would be the latest reshaping of the North American
rail industry, which has rapidly consolidated since the government deregulated
the sector in the early 1980s. That has led to a severe winnowing in the number
of companies, from 56 so-called Class I railroads in 1975 to seven in 2005.

Norfolk Southern and its larger rival, CSX, operate in the eastern half of the
United States, while Union Pacific and Burlington Northern operate in the
western half.

The two main Canadian freight railways, Canadian National and Canadian Pacific,
also have holdings in the United States.

Canadian Pacific and its chief executive, Hunter Harrison, have tried to pursue
deal-making in order to expand the company. Last year, Canadian Pacific pursued
a merger with the American railroad CSX to create a transcontinental railroad,
though the talks ended last fall after CSX rebuffed the approach.

Previously, Mr. Harrison had been wary of a merger approach, believing that
regulators would not look favorably upon consolidation in an already
concentrated industry.

Mike Ward, the chief executive of CSX, has said publicly that he believed
mergers could disrupt freight traffic and that regulators might be ''very
concerned'' about a deal. Such a deal would be the first considered under the
tenure of Justin Trudeau, Canada's new Liberal prime minister.

A union of Canadian Pacific and Norfolk Southern would be big by any measure.
Norfolk Southern had a market value of nearly $24 billion as of Friday's market
close, while Canadian Pacific was valued at $20.5 billion.

It would be the second-biggest takeover in the rail industry, behind only
Berkshire Hathaway's acquisition of Burlington Northern in 2009, according to
data from Standard & Poor's Capital IQ. The Burlington deal was the biggest ever
for Berkshire's chief executive, the billionaire Warren E. Buffett.

Combining Norfolk Southern and Canadian Pacific is not a new idea. The hedge
fund manager William A. Ackman, who became a major investor in Canadian Pacific
three years ago and who helped lure Mr. Harrison out of retirement, hinted last
fall that Canadian Pacific might hunt for an acquisition.

Should Canadian Pacific ultimately buy Norfolk Southern, it might focus on
cutting costs at its new acquisition. Mr. Harrison gained a reputation during
his career of being a master of efficiency, ensuring that Canadian Pacific had
one of the most reliable delivery records in the industry.

Since the end of the CSX discussions, Mr. Harrison has contended that mergers
could help relieve the continent's clogged railways -- though those traffic jams
have since improved.

It is a low time for Norfolk Southern, which has been hurt by a drop in coal
freight. Its stock had fallen 27 percent so far this year before Friday, as its
revenues have stayed roughly flat.

More broadly, shares of railway operators have slumped over the last 12 months
because of a decline in volumes, particularly as shipments of oil and coal have
fallen.

But on Monday afternoon, after Bloomberg News reported the talks, shares of
Norfolk Southern surged more than 11 percent, closing at $88.68. In trading in
Toronto, shares of Canadian Pacific closed up 5.9 percent.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/dealbook/canadian-pacific-said-to-wei
gh-deal-for-norfolk-southern.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Norfolk Southern, a rail operator that is said to be in deal
talks with Canadian Pacific, has been hurt by a drop in coal freight.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/GETTY IMAGES) (B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (92%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE
(89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); DEREGULATION (78%); TAKEOVERS (75%); RAIL FREIGHT
(73%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE
(60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: CSX CORP (92%); NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORP (90%); UNION PACIFIC CORP (90%);
BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (51%)

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (92%); NSC (NYSE) (90%); UNP (NYSE) (90%); BRK.B (NYSE)
(51%); BRK.A (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (92%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL
OPERATING (92%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (92%); NAICS484121 GENERAL
FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (90%); NAICS484110 GENERAL FREIGHT
TRUCKING, LOCAL (90%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (90%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE
AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (51%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6411
INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (51%)

PERSON: JUSTIN TRUDEAU (79%); BILL ACKMAN (79%); MICHAEL J WARD (50%); WARREN
BUFFETT (50%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pimco Suit Sheds Light on Murky Investor Fees

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1362 words


With the trading desks of investment banks cut to the bone, the ability to pin a
fat fee on a fast-growing pile of assets has become the holy grail for financial
firms.

Few have proved better at this than the bond giant Pimco and its total return
fund, which took in more than $6 billion in fees between 2010 and 2013 -- the
most profitable run ever for a mutual fund.

But as Pimco copes with an exodus of cash from its largest fund after the
departure of its co-founder William H. Gross, these fees -- and in particular,
their composition -- are drawing scrutiny.

In late 2014, a disgruntled investor in Seattle sued the firm, asserting that
the fund's fees were disproportionately high.

And last month, in his own lawsuit, Mr. Gross, the man known as the bond king,
said that Pimco executives were secretly raising the fees on its most profitable
mutual fund in order to enrich themselves.

On Monday, Pimco asked that Mr. Gross's lawsuit be dismissed, stating that he
had ''engaged in a pattern of conduct that was incompatible'' with Pimco values.
The reply rejected Mr. Gross's claims that he had been unjustly terminated and
deprived of money owed to him.

At issue in the debate over fees is what Pimco's total return fund charges
investors to oversee and administer its assets.

Last year, according to filings, investors in the fund paid Pimco $1.1 billion.

Of that number, $467 million was from management fees, which Pimco charges to
scour the world for the best bonds to buy.

But it is the $442 million that the firm collected in administrative fees that
lies at the root of the claim made in each lawsuit, that investors in the total
return fund are being disadvantaged.

It is quite a sum for what is essentially a back-office function, and it far
surpasses what other funds of similar size charge to administer their assets.

The fund's $442 million administrative fee is greater than the combined tally of
fees -- $400 million -- at the two total return funds that compete directly with
Pimco.

Those two funds, managed by Metropolitan West and DoubleLine, oversee a total of
$118 billion in assets compared with the $93.7 billion for Pimco's Total Return
fund.

''It's ridiculous and extremely disappointing from a governance perspective,''
said Eric Jacobson, an analyst with the fund rating agency Morningstar who has
written several critical reports about Pimco's high administrative fees. ''This
is the type of thing you farm out to another provider. The cost of the service
should not even come close to the cost of investment management.''

Pimco executives said the fund's fees are in line with, if not below, those of
its peers. And they cited the fund's operating expense ratio of 0.46 of total
assets, which, according to Morningstar, is ''below average.''

''This is a misleading apples-and-oranges comparison, because Pimco charges a
fixed all-in fee whereas other funds unbundle various fees,'' said Michael Reid,
a Pimco spokesman. ''The appropriate comparison is total expenses.''

Nevertheless, not all investors grasp that one half of the fee they pay for
investing in a Pimco fund goes to covering overhead. Nor does it does explain
why the biggest actively managed bond fund in the world is charging investors
the same amount to administer its assets as it does to manage them.

Mr. Gross's accusation zeros in on perhaps the murkiest area of the $15 trillion
mutual fund industry: How fund companies account for and disclose the billions
of dollars in fees that they charge investors each year for managing their
money.

In Mr. Gross's complaint, he blamed the longtime head of Pimco's mutual funds,
Brent R. Harris, for total return's fees.

Mincing few words, he described Mr. Harris as ''money driven'' and said that the
Pimco executive was ''particularly proud of his efforts to raise annual fees on
various funds, such as the total return fund, through creatively labeling such
fees as 'administrative costs.' ''

As chairman of the trust that oversees Pimco's 172 mutual funds -- a position he
has held since 1992 -- Mr. Harris has a primary duty to the millions of
investors who own Pimco funds.

At the same time, Mr. Harris is a member of Pimco's executive committee and
heads a fee policy group that has oversight for the fees Pimco charges
investors.

Mr. Gross, in the lawsuit, said that Mr. Harris was more concerned with raking
in profits for Pimco than with keeping fees low for investors.

Mr. Reid said that fees were not set by Pimco. By law, he said, it is the
independent trustees, who make up 75 percent of the board, who approve fees
annually in a separate vote.

''This fee structure is approved by a large majority of investors because of the
price certainty and transparency,'' Mr. Reid said.

Many of these are sophisticated institutions, which also get a discount: Pimco
charges such investors 0.21 percent of their assets for overhead, compared with
between 0.25 and 0.35 percent that retail investors must pay.

While Pimco's unified fee structure had been in place for a number of years, it
was updated in the summer of 2008.

Pimco executives proposed in July that the firm be compensated for undertaking
the increasingly complex work of administering the fund's assets, according to
regulatory filings.

The case was made that tasks such as pricing securities, communicating with
investors and various other back office functions would be more efficiently
handled in-house at Pimco headquarters in Newport Beach, Calif., and that a flat
fee should be charged to investors for these services.

It was an unorthodox request. Mutual funds and the companies that manage their
assets are, in effect, separate legal entities.

Investment firms like Pimco sign agreements with their fund families to do what
they were set up to do: navigate the markets and produce decent market returns.

But the less value-added work of servicing investor assets is often farmed out
to companies that specialize in this business.

Pimco has said publicly that the service pact -- which is automatically renewed
each year -- is profitable, and the numbers bear that out.

As the size of the total return fund approached $300 billion, the administrative
fee alone produced $1.3 billion in revenue for Pimco in 2012 and 2013.

In a filing in which Mr. Harris and the fund trustees explained why they agreed
to the deal, they said it should be seen as ''part of total compensation
received by Pimco from its relationship with the funds.''

While Mr. Gross may have highlighted the fee issue in his lawsuit, it is also
true that, in his 40 years at the firm, he was a major beneficiary of the
pricing structure, getting paid $300 million at the peak. Still, he had raised
the issue of high fees in his 1997 book ''Everything You've Heard About
Investing Is Wrong!'' and in his investor outlooks.

In his last months at the firm, he says in his suit, he began to warn more
persistently that Pimco was focusing too much on fees, at the expense of the
investor.

At a meeting in August 2014, just a month before he was forced out, Mr. Gross
reacted strongly to a presentation by Pimco's chief executive, Douglas M. Hodge,
according to several people with direct knowledge of the presentation.

In the presentation, Mr. Hodge argued that Pimco should ''maximize wallet
share'' and ''fend off fee pressures.''

In response, these people said, Mr. Gross wrote a memo to his fellow members of
the executive committee saying they had become too profit-driven and were
ignoring ''more critical areas such as fees.''

When Mr. Harris objected, Mr. Gross retorted that the longtime head of the
firm's fee group was too accustomed to ''driving in fourth gear,'' when it came
to billing the investor.

Mr. Harris, Mr. Gross said, needed ''to practice his skills at driving in
reverse.''

But by then, Pimco executives had had enough of Mr. Gross' increasingly erratic
behavior.

While generally a volatile man, he had now begun to lash out at his colleagues
who he feared were plotting against him, said people involved in these
discussions.

For that reason alone, the firm's leadership concluded, it was time for Mr.
Gross to go.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/dealbook/pimco-suit-sheds-light-on-mu
rky-investor-fees.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A suit brought by the firm's co-founder accuses executives of
raising fees for their own profit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE BLAKE/REUTERS) (B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%);
COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BONDS (89%); LITIGATION (88%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT
(78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (74%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS
(67%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (79%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (76%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (76%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Match Is Seeking $3.1 Billion Value in I.P.O.

BYLINE: By LESLIE PICKER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg.

LENGTH: 392 words


The Match Group is seeking a valuation of about $3.1 billion as it prepares for
an initial public offering.

The company, which owns the online dating brands OkCupid and Tinder, said on
Monday that it planned to sell 33.3 million shares for $12 to $14 apiece. Those
terms indicate an offering size of $433 million and a market valuation of $3.1
billion at the midpoint.

In setting these terms, Match begins a roadshow, meeting with investors who will
help the company set an official I.P.O. price in a few weeks, based on demand.

The media conglomerate that owns Match, IAC/InterActiveCorp, whose chairman is
Barry Diller, has been acquiring a number of dating sites over the last few
years. As the online-dating industry increased in popularity, legacy sites like
Match.com started facing more competition from free models like OkCupid. Mr.
Diller's strategy was to build scale by acquiring a portfolio of brands -- now
45 in all -- and eventually spin them off under the Match umbrella.

Match is selling 14 percent of itself in the I.P.O., the first step in a split
from IAC. But IAC will maintain control.

Match will give three classes of stock, by which IAC's Class B shares will
represent an economic stake of 86 percent and 98.4 percent of the voting power.
The class of shares sold to the public through the I.P.O. -- known as common
stock -- will have 1.6 percent of voting power. There will not be shares of
Class C, the third class, outstanding after the I.P.O.

Match plans to use the proceeds generated from the I.P.O. to repay debt to IAC.

The company, based in Dallas, generates revenue from both paid subscribers and
advertising. Match had $752.9 million in revenue during the first nine months of
the year, an increase of about 16 percent from the year prior. Match had 4.7
million paid members during the quarter through Sept. 30.

One thing that could differentiate Match from other companies that have gone
public recently: profit. The company generated $84.7 million in net earnings
during the nine months through September, although that narrowed from the same
period a year prior, as Match spent more on product development and general and
administrative expenses.

JPMorgan, Allen & Company and Bank of America Merrill Lynch are managing the
offering. The stock will be listed on the Nasdaq stock market under the symbol
MTCH.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/dealbook/match-is-seeking-3-1-billion
-value-in-ipo.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE DATING SERVICES (90%); DATING SERVICES (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS
(89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMMON STOCK
(77%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (84%); ALLEN & CO INC
(62%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (51%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (51%)

TICKER: IACI (NASDAQ) (84%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (51%); JPM (NYSE) (51%); JPM (LSE)
(51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
(84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING &
SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY
BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES
(84%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER
HOUSES (84%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231
SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING
COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES
(51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS
(51%)

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (69%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pershing's Founder Defends Valeant Losses and Digs at 'Snide Comments'

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA STEVENSON and MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1226 words


The billionaire investor William A. Ackman, whose firm is among the
worst-performing hedge funds this year, used an investor conference call on
Monday to take a swipe at the media and those on Wall Street who he said
relished ''betting against'' him.

Mr. Ackman, the founder of the $16.5 billion Pershing Square Capital Management,
responded aggressively to the news media's coverage of a four-hour conference
call he held on Oct. 30 to defend his hedge fund's 21-million-share stake in
Valeant Pharmaceuticals. Valeant's stock price has plunged more than 60 percent
over the last several months because of its controversial pricing tactics.

In a separate call for investors on Monday, Mr. Ackman complained that news
accounts of the earlier call had focused unfairly on the time he spent defending
the Valeant investment to investors, who include some of the nation's biggest
pension funds. In reality, he said, most of the time was devoted to answering
investors' questions. He added that in doing so, he was prepared to accept a
''fair degree of snide comments from the press.''

Mr. Ackman's defense came as he discussed the performance of Pershing Square and
its investments. Pershing Square is down 19 percent for the year, in large
measure because of the big plunge in shares of Valeant, but also as a result of
several of the firm's other stock bets on publicly listed companies.

Mr. Ackman also said he was aware there were a fair number of ''people betting
against Pershing Square'' by taking opposing positions in stocks his firm owns
and positioning themselves for the possibility that Pershing Square will have to
sell some of its holdings.

Some of Mr. Ackman's critics on Wall Street have questioned whether he might be
forced to sell off some of his firm's holdings if too many investors seek to
redeem some of their money at year's end. In response to that speculation, Mr.
Ackman countered that roughly 50 percent of his firm's capital is not subject to
periodic investor redemptions.

Still, his firm's investment in Valeant has become a lightning rod for
criticism, putting pressure on the investor at a difficult time. He has lost
about $2.2 billion on his investment in Valeant, assuming an average purchase
price of $200 a share. Pershing began buying shares in the Canadian drug
manufacturer on Feb. 9, when the stock was trading at around $160, and continued
buying as the price quickly climbed to about $200. By the middle of March, his
firm disclosed it had accumulated 19 million shares, a 5.7 percent equity stake,
in Valeant.

Much of the tone of Monday's call, which lasted just under two hours, was
defensive. The average hedge fund is posting barely positive returns this year,
as measured by Hedge Fund Research, and the S.&P. 500 is up just under 1 percent
for the year. Some of the industry's biggest names, like David Einhorn of
Greenlight Capital and Larry Robbins of Glenview Capital Management, have
generated headlines for investors' losses of hundreds of millions of dollars
over the last quarter.

More so than other hedge fund managers, Mr. Ackman attracts attention for his
success -- last year he finished the year up nearly 40 percent -- and for an
investing style that focuses on taking outsize positions in companies in which
he has either a strong conviction or has been agitating for corporate change.
The strategy has its risks because it leaves Pershing Square with highly
concentrated stock positions, making it more vulnerable than other hedge funds
to sudden moves in a particular company's stock price. When the strategy pays
off, however, it can do so handsomely.

Mr. Ackman reaffirmed his bet on Valeant, saying that at the current stock price
it was an ''extraordinary bargain.'' But the pharmaceutical company has come
under intense scrutiny after a report published by a prominent short-seller that
accused Valeant of fraud connected to its drug pricing. The company's share
price has dropped by 44 percent since the report was published on Oct. 21.

Valeant also faces a federal investigation into some of its drug-pricing
strategies and questions about the nature of its relationship with a specialty
pharmacy group called Philidor Rx Services.

While Valeant initially defended its relationship with Philidor in a conference
call, it moved quickly to cut those ties after accusations that Valeant was
using the pharmacy to create phantom sales.

As the stock got pummeled in the face of controversy over its relationship with
Philidor two weeks ago, Pershing Square quickly acquired another two million
shares. Valeant, by market value, is now the fifth-largest position in Pershing
Square's portfolio, a position Mr. Ackman said on Monday he thought was
appropriate.

With the share price under pressure, Mr. Ackman decided to hold his own
conference call and webcast on Oct. 30 to defend his firm's investment in
Valeant. During the marathon event, Mr. Ackman criticized Valeant for being too
''scripted'' in its call to investors and said he was disappointed in the
company's response to the furor.

But Mr. Ackman said he still believed in Valeant's long-term prospects, even
though the company might well end up paying a penalty to regulators for its
reliance on Philidor to sell certain drug products.

Mr. Ackman's unusual and lengthy defense of Valeant in that call did not do the
stock much good. Shares of Valeant fell 16 percent that day.

The stock fell 15 percent more on Nov. 5, after investors reacted negatively to
a front-page story in The Wall Street Journal in which Mr. Ackman sought to
explain why he remained loyal to Valeant. Investors read the story as an
indication that Mr. Ackman harbored doubts about the leadership of Michael
Pearson, the chief executive of Valeant.

The stock's plunge prompted Mr. Ackman to send an email to Mr. Pearson in which
he wrote that he and his firm ''share the board's confidence in you and your
leadership.'' Mr. Ackman's representatives made sure copies of the supportive
email were released to the news media.

Valeant has since announced that it will sever the relationship with Philidor
and that it will hold its own conference call on Tuesday to discuss its future
business practices without Philidor.

During the call on Monday, Mr. Ackman periodically interrupted his own analysts,
whom he had brought on the call to discuss his firm's particular stock holdings,
to offer his own views. Introducing the question-and-answer period of the call,
Mr. Ackman speculated that some people submitted questions to his conference
calls simply ''to have their questions read so that they can make a point.''

In addition to its troubles over Valeant, the firm has also had a disappointing
result with Herbalife, the nutritional supplement manufacturer that Mr. Ackman
has argued for the last three years is an unlawful pyramid scheme that will
ultimately collapse. In 2012, his firm initially placed a $1 billion ''short''
bet that shares of Herbalife would plunge to zero.

But just as Valeant's stock performance has turned against Mr. Ackman this year,
a 48 percent rise in the price of Herbalife stock since early January has also
punished his firm. As of midday Monday, shares of Herbalife were trading around
$55 -- roughly $14 above the price of trading when Mr. Ackman first publicly
unveiled his bearish bet in December 2012.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/dealbook/ackman-defends-pershings-val
eant-losses-and-digs-at-snide-coverage.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (90%); CONFERENCE CALLS (90%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (90%);
PENSION FUNDS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PRICES (75%)

COMPANY: VALEANT PHARMACEUTICALS INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); ARDEA BIOSCIENCES INC
(57%)

TICKER: VRX (TSX) (57%); VRX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%);
NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL
PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%)

PERSON: BILL ACKMAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bond Giant Answers Suit From Former Star Manager

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 384 words


Pimco, the bond investment giant, responded on Monday to a $200 million lawsuit
filed by its former star portfolio manager, William H. Gross, by asking that his
claim be dismissed as ''legally groundless.''

Mr. Gross sued his former company about a month ago, arguing that he was
illegally removed from the firm, where he had worked for 40 years, and was
deprived of money owed to him.

Pimco recently hired the prominent lawyer David Boies to lead its defense.

And while Mr. Gross has chronicled a Shakespearean plot on the part of his
former colleagues to force him from a firm that he had made famous, Pimco has
left out the lurid details in its response, dismissing the claim as more a
vindictive screenplay than a serious legal document.

''This suit is only the latest step in Mr. Gross's effort to resurrect a
personal reputation damaged by his own unacceptable behavior,'' Pimco said in a
preliminary statement.

Pimco gave no specific examples in terms of this conduct, although it was widely
known that Mr. Gross was quick to anger and would on occasion raise his voice in
exchanges with his colleagues.

In a response, Mr. Gross's lawyer, Patricia L. Glaser of Glaser Weil Fink Howard
Avchen & Shapiro, said, ''We are disappointed that Pimco has chosen to use a
procedural tactic to delay getting to the merits of the case.''

She said that Pimco's response did not ''dispute the substance of Mr. Gross's
allegations in any material way.''

In the statement, Pimco said that in his last year at the firm Mr. Gross had
''engaged in a pattern of conduct that was incompatible'' with Pimco's values.

Pimco has argued that there was no breach of contract connected to Mr. Gross's
departure and that he had no further rights to the firm's profit-sharing plan.

Pimco has been doing the best that it can to leave all the drama surrounding Mr.
Gross's last days at the firm in the past. It has presented a revamped
leadership structure to investors, under the supervision of a new investment
chief, Daniel J. Ivascyn.

But with funds still leaking out of the total return fund that Mr. Gross once
managed, continued publicity related to their former star manager does the firm
little good.

''Pimco has moved forward since Mr. Gross's resignation,'' the firm said. ''It
is time for him to do the same.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/dealbook/pimco-calls-william-gross-la
wsuit-legally-groundless.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (90%); BONDS (90%); MANAGERS &
SUPERVISORS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (73%); CONTRACTS LAW (73%);
EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (50%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Scuffle Between Nevada Casino Company and Union Pulls In Deutsche Bank

BYLINE: By LIZ MOYER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 771 words


The long-running fight between culinary workers and a casino owner in Las Vegas
is about to go another round. And the workers are hoping the regulatory troubles
faced by a German bank might give them the advantage they have been looking for.

Station Casinos, which operates 19 casinos in Nevada, filed for an initial
public offering last month, with the securities division of Deutsche Bank
leading the effort. The bank, through a subsidiary, is also a 25 percent owner
of the casino company, which was founded in 1976 by Frank Fertitta Jr. and is
still controlled by his family.

The union's issue: The initial public offering documentation fails to mention
that Deutsche Bank has paid more than $2.5 billion this year to settle
investigations into its capital markets activities.

Specifically, Deutsche Bank paid $2.5 billion this spring to settle its part of
a broad regulatory inquiry into how banks set interest rates in the
interbank-loan market. More recently the bank paid $258 million to New York
State regulators and the Federal Reserve over its dealings with customers in
companies that are under sanction by the United States, like Iran and Syria.

All of this led to questions about Deutsche Bank's suitability as an owner of
casino properties, the Culinary Workers Union, Local 226 said in a Nov. 3 letter
to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The union asked the regulators to
review Station Casinos' Oct. 13 registration filing.

The failure to disclose Deutsche Bank's regulatory issues in the I.P.O. filing
is ''particularly disturbing,'' the union said in its letter, a copy of which
was reviewed by The New York Times. It is signed by Maya Holmes, the union's
research director.

''We believe the S.E.C. requires a high degree of disclosure so that public
investors can judge for themselves the risks associated with buying shares in an
I.P.O. like Station Casinos,'' her letter said.

A Station Casinos spokeswoman said the company had no comment, as did a
spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank.

The letter is the latest salvo in the long-running tussle between Station
Casinos and the Culinary Workers Union, which represents 55,000 cooks,
housekeepers, cocktail servers, bartenders, porters and other casino staff. The
casino company initially went public in 1993 but was taken private again in
2006.

For years the union has tried unsuccessfully to organize workers at the nonunion
Station Casinos properties. It recently said it would try to unionize the
athletes who participate in the mixed martial arts Ultimate Fighting
Championship, a professional sports outfit also owned by the Fertitta family. It
has staged protests in front of Station Casinos hotels and this summer waged war
on what it called an ''irresponsible'' water fountain planned for the Ultimate
Fighting Championship's Las Vegas headquarters.

Deutsche Bank is a presence in Sin City. After stepping in to rescue the
development of the flashy Cosmopolitan hotel and casino during the financial
crisis, it ended up owning the development. The bank finally sold the casino to
Blackstone Group last year for $1.7 billion.

Part of the proceeds of the Station Casinos I.P.O. will go to buy out Fertitta
Entertainment, an affiliated company that owns the management contracts
connected to Station Casinos' holdings. That buyout is valued at $460 million,
according to a regulatory filing. The Culinary Workers Union is examining the
valuation, although it has not raised the issue with regulators, Ms. Holmes said
in an interview.

Legal experts said the objections the union had raised over the bank might not
gain much traction. While local gambling industry regulators could investigate
any issue, ''it's really hard to imagine that this could end up being a big
problem for Deutsche Bank,'' said Bud Hicks, a lawyer in Reno who specializes in
gambling industry law.

Still, should local gambling regulators deem Deutsche Bank unsuitable as an
owner, a forced sale of its holdings in Station Casinos could negatively affect
shareholders, the union argued in its letter.

Even before the initial public offering was announced, the union took its
concerns about Deutsche Bank's regulatory issues to the Nevada Gaming Commission
and the Nevada Gaming Control Board in a letter in June, and to Gov. Brian
Sandoval of Nevada in a letter in September.

''We ask the board to immediately start a review as to whether it is consistent
with Nevada's gaming laws for an investor with this record to have a significant
ownership stake in the holder of an unrestricted gaming license,'' the union
said in the June letter to the gambling board.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/dealbook/scuffle-between-nevada-casin
o-company-and-union-pulls-in-deutsche-bank.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Red Rock Casino, owned by Station Casinos. The Culinary
Workers Union has asked regulators to review the company's initial public
offering filing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (93%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%);
LABOR UNIONS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); MARTIAL ARTS (89%);
SECURITIES LAW (89%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING &
FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); FAMILY COMPANIES (75%); PROTESTS &
DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (63%); INTEREST RATES (53%);
ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

COMPANY: STATION CASINOS INC (92%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%);
DB (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%);
NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING &
SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282
INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION
COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%)

STATE: NEVADA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%);
SYRIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Standard Life Chairman to Join Barclays Board

BYLINE: By CHAD BRAY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 346 words


LONDON -- The chairman of the insurer Standard Life will join Barclays in
January as deputy chairman and senior independent director, the British bank
said on Monday.

The Standard Life chairman, Gerry Grimstone, will replace Michael Rake, who is
leaving the Barclays' board of directors after becoming chairman of Worldpay, a
British payment processor, in September. Mr. Rake will leave the board on Dec.
31, and Mr. Grimstone will join as a director on Jan. 1.

Mr. Grimstone was appointed chairman of Standard Life in May 2007 and is a
former vice chairman of the investment banking business at Schroders. He
''commands great respect within the financial services industry and will bring
immense experience, integrity and knowledge to the role,'' John McFarlane, the
Barclays chairman, said in a news release.

The appointment continues a series of leadership changes at Barclays since Mr.
McFarlane replaced David Walker as chairman this year.

Antony Jenkins was ousted as chief executive in July after directors lost
confidence in his ability to improve shareholder returns. James E. Staley, known
as Jes, is a former top executive at JPMorgan Chase who is to assume the role of
Barclays chief executive on Dec. 1.

''I am particularly looking forward to supporting John McFarlane and Jes Staley
as they seek to complete the cultural transformation of Barclays and accelerate
the delivery of sustainable shareholder returns,'' Mr. Grimstone said in the
news release.

Mr. Rake, who oversaw the search for chief executive, has been a Barclays
director since January 2008 and its deputy chairman since July 2012. Worldpay
announced his appointment as chairman in July.

He is also the chairman of the telecommunications company BT Group and president
of the Confederation of British Industry, a trade group.

''The last eight years have been an eventful and difficult period for the
banking industry,'' Mr. Rake said in the news release. ''However, Barclays is
emerging in a stronger position, and I am very confident that it will succeed
and prosper under its new leadership.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/dealbook/standard-life-barclays-gerry
-grimstone-michael-rake.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%);
BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL
ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%);
SHAREHOLDERS (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (63%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BT GROUP PLC (66%);
WORLDPAY US INC (58%)

TICKER: TAPR (NASDAQ) (92%); BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE)
(84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); BT.A (LSE) (66%); BT (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC
(92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999
MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL
BANKS (84%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (66%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER
FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (58%); SIC7376 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
SERVICES (58%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (89%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Regulators Propose New Rules to Ease Strain of Bank Failures

BYLINE: By CHAD BRAY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 371 words


LONDON -- A group of financial policy makers has outlined a new framework
intended to keep banks around the world from becoming ''too big to fail'' and
requiring government bailouts in a future financial crisis.

The proposed rules would require the world's biggest banks to maintain capital
buffers that could absorb potential losses when a bank is failing and prevent
further pressure on the financial system. Regulators are seeking to shift the
costs of a failing bank to its investors, rather than on taxpayers in a future
financial upheaval.

The new recommendations were outlined on Monday by the Financial Stability
Board, a Switzerland-based group of central bankers and financial regulators
from the world's largest economies.

The proposed standards would still have to be adopted by leaders of the Group of
20 big economies, which meet in Turkey this month. The Federal Reserve of the
United States announced its own rules for the so-called total loss-absorbing
capital in October.

''It is important to recognize that success in ending 'too big to fail' may
never be absolute because all financial institutions cannot be insulated fully
from all external shocks,'' Mark J. Carney, the Bank of England governor and the
chairman of the Financial Stability Board, wrote in a letter to the Group of 20
on Monday.

''But these proposals will help change the system so that individual banks as
well as their investors and creditors beat the costs of their own actions, and
the consequences of the risks they take,'' he added.

Under the new rules, lenders that have been deemed ''systematically important''
by regulators would be required by 2019 to maintain a capital buffer equal to 16
percent of their so-called risk-weighted assets in debt that can be used to
cover losses in the future. By 2022, the threshold would be increased to 18
percent of assets weighted by risk.

The proposals cover 30 of the world's biggest banks, including Barclays,
Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, HSBC and JPMorgan Chase.

The Financial Stability Board estimated that those 30 banks would collectively
need to raise as much as 1.1 trillion euros, or about $1.2 trillion, by 2022,
depending on what debt was considered appropriate by regulators.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/dealbook/regulators-propose-new-rules
-to-ease-strain-of-bank-failures.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); CENTRAL
BANKS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE
AGENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING &
FINANCE REGULATION (78%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%);
BANK OF ENGLAND (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710
(TSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE)
(58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK
HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT
ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES
BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO
MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%);
SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION
COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS521110
MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (73%); TURKEY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Software Maker Atlassian Files to Go Public

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg.

LENGTH: 365 words


Atlassian, a maker of development and collaboration software for companies,
filed on Monday to go public.

The company, whose last private investment round valued it at more than $3
billion, has chosen Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley to lead the offering.

Atlassian, a 13-year-old company, may not be as well known as other so-called
unicorns, or start-ups valued at more than $1 billion by investors. The company
produces a number of products meant to make life easier for software developers,
like its JIRA project management tool -- a name derived from the Japanese
moniker for Godzilla -- its HipChat chat software, and its Bitbucket code
management tool.

That puts the company into competition with prominent rivals like the
collaboration giant Slack and the code repository Github.

Yet unlike many of Silicon Valley darlings, Atlassian was not born in the Bay
Area. Instead, it was founded in Australia in 2002 and financed in part by some
$10,000 in credit card debt.

Now, the company claims some 51,000 customers and more than 1,200 employees.

The start-up has stood out from the pack in several other ways.

Chief among them is that it has never actually taken in money from outside
investors. Though the company counts at least three financial firms -- including
Accel Partners, T. Rowe Price and Dragoneer Investment Group -- among its
investors, those firms bought their shares from employees in so-called secondary
transactions.

That makes Atlassian a so-called bootstrapped company, relying on its own
profits to finance its growth.

According to the filing on Monday, the company has been profitable for the last
three years. In the fiscal year that ended June 30, the company earned $6.8
million on revenue of $319.5 million, compared with net income of $19 million on
revenue of $215 million in the previous year.

Atlassian does not have a sales force, unusual at a time when enterprise
software start-ups hire hundreds of sales staff to pitch their products far and
wide. Instead, the company bets that word-of-mouth gets it adopted within a
corporation one team at a time.

The company plans to list its shares on the Nasdaq market under the ticker
symbol ''TEAM.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/dealbook/atlassian-files-to-go-public
.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCING ROUNDS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%);
NETWORK SOFTWARE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TECHNICIANS & TECHNOLOGICAL
WORKERS (78%); SALES & SELLING (74%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%);
SALES FORCE (72%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); COMPANY
EARNINGS (70%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); CREDIT
CARDS (67%); PERSONAL DEBT (52%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT
CO INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%);
NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%);
NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES
ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282
INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523999
MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC
(54%)

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 56 words


An article on Monday about Peabody Energy's agreement to disclose more to its
investors about the financial risks it faces related to climate change described
the company incorrectly. It is a private sector company as opposed to a
government-owned one, but it is not privately owned. (It is publicly listed on
the New York Stock Exchange.)



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (82%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (56%)

COMPANY: PEABODY ENERGY CORP (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

TICKER: BTU (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (91%); NAICS212112
BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (91%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE
SURFACE MINING (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Cowboys' Dreams of Contending Evaporate

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN HOFFMAN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg.

LENGTH: 505 words


Perhaps now, with the team having fallen to 2-6, the talk of the Dallas Cowboys
as legitimate playoff contenders can finally cease.

It had begun to seem that nothing could discourage Cowboys supporters. The team
has lost every game since Tony Romo was injured in a Week 2 win, but even with
Dallas trailing Philadelphia late in the game Sunday night, on the way to the
team's sixth consecutive loss, the NBC broadcast crew was detailing
possibilities in which the Cowboys could win the N.F.C. East.

But when overtime rolled around, Sam Bradford of the Eagles hit Jordan Matthews
for a 41-yard touchdown, sealing Dallas's fate in the game and perhaps for the
season.

Dallas now has its longest losing streak since 1989, which was the first season
for the team after Jimmy Johnson replaced Tom Landry as coach, and it is in last
place in the division, two and a half games behind the Giants in the win column.
If it is still technically in playoff contention, that is more of an indictment
of the N.F.L.'s division system than of the team's quality. There are currently
14 teams in the N.F.C. with superior records to the Cowboys, leaving just the
1-7 Detroit Lions behind them.

The team's poor record did not stop Matt Cassel, the team's current starting
quarterback, from discussing the Cowboys as if a turnaround were on the horizon.

''We've got to go out there and continue to compete,'' Cassel said at the
postgame news conference. ''The minute you start worrying about rankings, I
don't think you're going to give your best effort.''

In the six-game losing streak, Dallas has been outscored by a combined 66-30 in
the fourth quarter and overtime. Quarterback Brandon Weeden quickly proved
himself incapable of leading the offense. Cassel's job security looked to be in
trouble as well before Sunday's reasonable effort, which included 299 passing
yards and three touchdowns but also a fourth-quarter interception that was
returned for a touchdown.

Sean Lee, the centerpiece of the Cowboys' front seven, left the game with a
concussion, his second of the season. Lee, a middle linebacker, has dealt with
numerous injuries in his career, but under the N.F.L.'s concussion protocol, he
will need to be closely monitored. He did not miss any time after his first
concussion, which he sustained in Week 4.

Despite all that, some are still envisioning a situation in which Romo's return
cures all that ails the team. But even with all reports indicating he will be
ready to go when he is eligible in Week 11, things will not get much easier for
the Cowboys. Romo's return is expected to come against the currently undefeated
Carolina Panthers, and the team's final six games of the season also include
tough matchups against Green Bay, Buffalo and the Jets.

It is not mathematically over in Dallas, but an 0-6 record in the team's first
six games without Romo is worse than even the harshest Dallas critics could have
envisioned. And as good as Romo is, the hole the team has dug itself looks to be
too deep to climb out of.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/time-for-dallas-cowboys-fans-to-give-up
-hope.html

GRAPHIC: The Cowboys' Sean Lee being assisted off the field on Sunday. He left
the game with a concussion, his second of the season. BRANDON WADE/ASSOCIATED
PRESS BRANDON WADE/ASSOCIATED PRESS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%);
CONCUSSIONS (89%); BRAIN INJURIES (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); ATHLETES (86%);
RANKINGS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); INDICTMENTS (67%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS COWBOYS (94%); PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS
(56%); DETROIT LIONS (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (57%)

PERSON: TONY ROMO (92%)

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%); DETROIT, MI, USA (69%)

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%); MICHIGAN, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Catalans Raise Stakes in Push for Secession

BYLINE: By RAPHAEL MINDER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 748 words


BARCELONA --  Catalan separatist lawmakers intensified their standoff with
Spain's central government in Madrid on Monday, approving a resolution that lays
out a path for the region to ''disconnect'' from the rest of Spain by creating
its own institutions, including a separate Catalan tax agency and social
security system.

The move was immediately denounced by Spain's prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, as
the latest evidence that Catalan separatists were willing to flout Spanish law
in their pursuit of independence.

In response, Mr. Rajoy said he would sign a decree to suspend all the
declaration's possible consequences, pending a ruling by Spain's Constitutional
Court that is expected to strike down Catalonia's resolution, the latest in a
series of steps to break away from Spain that have escalated over the last three
years.

''Catalonia is not going to disconnect from anywhere, and there is going to be
no breakup,'' Mr. Rajoy said.

The standoff over the future of Catalonia -- which accounts for a fifth of
Spain's economy -- has become increasingly tense as both sides have raised the
stakes in each round of the confrontation, and as both Mr. Rajoy and the head of
Catalonia's regional government, Artur Mas, have used the conflict to bolster
their own standing in the face of political challenges.

Mr. Rajoy has sought to present himself as the defender of Spanish unity ahead
of a general election on Dec. 20. The vote is unlikely to yield a clear-cut
winner, according to the most recent opinion polls, with Mr. Rajoy and his
Popular Party holding a small lead that would be insufficient to keep their
parliamentary majority.

Mr. Mas, too, is fighting for political survival. He and his Convergence Party
have been tainted by corruption scandals, and Mr. Mas is supposed to face a vote
on his leadership of Catalonia by Thursday. Yet he is struggling to garner
sufficient support from lawmakers. One separatist party that voted in favor of
the resolution opposes his re-election.

Should he not get sufficient support, the main separatist coalition can either
present an alternative candidate or try to prolong the internal negotiations
over its leadership until Jan. 9, the deadline for a new Catalan regional
president to take office or for new regional elections to be called.

Addressing the Catalan Parliament on Monday, Mr. Mas called on fellow
separatists to unite in the ''gigantic'' challenge of forming a new nation.

''We have the opportunity to create a new country,'' Mr. Mas said. Catalonia, he
argued, has reached a crossroads, facing a choice between ''subordination and
freedom.''

The resolution approved on Monday calls for Catalonia to become an independent
republic, a goal that Mr. Mas and other separatists aim to achieve within 18
months. Most controversially, the resolution includes a defiant claim that
Catalonia's march toward nationhood need not be subject to approval by Spanish
institutions or the country's Constitutional Court.

In recent days, Mr. Rajoy has met with other national party leaders in order to
present a common front against Catalonia's separatist ambitions. While Spain's
other main parties want Catalonia to remain within Spain, Mr. Rajoy's rivals in
next month's general election have blamed Mr. Rajoy for allowing the
secessionist drive to reach such a precipitous point.

Monday's vote followed regional elections in September that gave separatist
parties the most parliamentary seats, but denied them a majority of the votes.
The fact that 48 percent of votes went to separatist parties was hailed by Mr.
Rajoy's government as proof that separatism was not backed by most of the
region's 7.5 million citizens.

Still, the separatist declaration was approved by 72 to 63. The separatists who
voted in favor included those of a far-left party known by its Catalan acronym
of CUP, which wants to remove Mr. Mas as regional leader.

Mr. Mas did not address CUP's concerns about his leadership directly on Monday.
Instead, he sought to portray himself as the victim of persecution by Madrid. He
was recently forced to appear in court over an independence vote in Catalonia a
year ago that was also struck down by Spain's Constitutional Court.

''Who wants to live in a state that prosecutes criminally somebody who promotes
the ballot boxes?'' Mr. Mas said.

Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: European Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/europe/catalan-legislators-raise-stakes-
in-push-for-secession-from-spain.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters waved the Spanish flag outside the Catalan
legislature in Barcelona on Monday as regional lawmakers debated. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DAVID RAMOS/GETTY IMAGES)
 Artur Mas, leader of Catalonia's regional government, after the vote. He faces
discontent within the separatist movement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LLUIS GENE/AGENCE
FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS
(89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%);
REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE &
GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX LAW (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); CORRUPTION (62%); POLLS
& SURVEYS (51%); SCANDALS (50%)

PERSON: MARIANO RAJOY (92%)

CITY: BARCELONA, SPAIN (93%); MADRID, SPAIN (92%)

STATE: CATALONIA, SPAIN (97%)

COUNTRY: SPAIN (99%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Africa; Nigeria: Head of Graft-Fighting Agency Is Latest to Be Fired by the
President

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 102 words


President Muhammadu Buhari has fired the head of Nigeria's main anti-corruption
agency, Ibrahim Lamorde. Mr. Lamorde is the latest in a string of senior
officials to be removed by Mr. Buhari, who took office in May promising to halt
the graft dragging down Nigeria, the continent's top oil producer. Mr. Lamorde
was a police commissioner when he became chairman of the Economic and Financial
Crimes Commission four years ago. The commission itself has been accused of
corruption. Since Mr. Buhari's inauguration, Mr. Lamorde's commission
investigated more people than in all his three previous years in office.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/africa/nigeria-head-of-graft-fighting-ag
ency-is-latest-to-be-fired-by-the-president.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (88%); FRAUD &
FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); POLICE FORCES (85%); INVESTIGATIONS (83%)

PERSON: MUHAMMADU BUHARI (92%)

COUNTRY: NIGERIA (94%); AFRICA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Those Suing G.M. Over Defect Can Seek Punitive Damages

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 100 words


A federal bankruptcy judge has ruled that people suing General Motors over
faulty ignition switches can seek punitive damages that could cost the automaker
millions of dollars. When General Motors emerged from a 2009 bankruptcy, it
became known as ''New G.M.'' and was essentially shielded from liabilities of
the company that was left behind. But Judge Robert Gerber in New York ruled on
Monday that employees and knowledge transferred from the ''Old G.M.'' to the new
company. Plaintiffs, he ruled, can seek punitive damages if they can show that
''New G.M.'' knew of the defect but covered it up.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/those-suing-gm-over-defect-can-seek-p
unitive-damages.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAMAGES (92%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); INSOLVENCY
& BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); JUDGES (90%);
AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (88%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (88%);
AUTOMAKERS (88%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%);
NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS &
ACCESSORIES (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%)

PERSON: ROBERT E GERBER (78%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

DuPont Gives Interim Chief the Top Position Full Time

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 70 words


DuPont's board named Edward D. Breen as chairman and chief executive. He had
been holding those positions in an interim capacity since last month, after the
sudden retirement of Ellen Kullman, who had fought off a bruising challenge from
the activist investor Nelson Peltz and his Trian Fund. Mr. Breen has been on
DuPont's board since February and has held several executive positions
elsewhere, including at Motorola.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/dupont-gives-interim-chief-the-top-po
sition-full-time.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); BOARD CHANGES (90%)

COMPANY: E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (93%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%)

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (93%); DD (NYSE) (93%); MSI (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE
& OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL
& RESIN MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS
(93%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (93%);
SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS
(93%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS
EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING &
COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%)

PERSON: ELLEN J KULLMAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Complaint Filed Over Work for Governor

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | WEST; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 172 words


A worker in the state oil and gas regulatory agency lodged a whistle-blower's
complaint over being ordered to prepare a state map of the oil and gas
potential, history and geology of Gov. Jerry Brown's family ranch, the worker
and her lawyer said Monday. The worker, Jennie Catalano, a mapping specialist
with the State Department of Conservation, contends she faced unspecified
retaliation after being suspected of lodging the complaint over being directed
to do the personal work for Mr. Brown, said her lawyer, William Rehwald. State
records obtained by The Associated Press show Mr. Brown in June 2014 directed
officials to map, research and assess the oil, gas and mineral history and
potential of his 2,700-acre family ranch in Northern California. State law
prohibits elected officials from using state resources for personal purposes. A
spokesman for the governor said that he is allowed access to public records just
as any member of the public is, and that oil and gas regulators routinely do
such research for the public.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/california-complaint-filed-over-work-for-go
vernor.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY REGULATION & POLICY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%);
ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%);
WHISTLEBLOWERS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); LAWYERS (73%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (77%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deal Talks Start Early as General Managers Meet

BYLINE: By BILLY WITZ

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 721 words


BOCA RATON, Fla. --  The general manager meetings are usually a somewhat sleepy
cousin to baseball's winter meetings, but that could change this year.

As teams' top baseball executives arrived Monday for the start of the meetings,
which will take place Tuesday and Wednesday, there appeared to be more activity
than usual -- more conversations with agents and with other teams.

''It hasn't typically been busy G.M. meetings over all in years gone by,''
Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman said. ''But it feels like the dialogue's
been a lot more active throughout October than in any other year prior, so who
knows?''

One general manager who will not be in attendance is the Mets' Sandy Alderson,
who is skipping the meetings to have an undisclosed medical procedure.
Representing the Mets are John Ricco, the assistant general manager; Paul
DePodesta, the vice president for player development and amateur scouting; and
J. P. Ricciardi, a special assistant to Alderson.

Ricciardi said the procedure had been delayed because of the Mets' run to the
World Series. The team would not say whether the need for the operation was
related to Alderson's fainting spell at a news conference last week. (At the
time, a team official said Alderson had skipped breakfast and felt lightheaded
under the television lights.)

''We'll be talking to him every day,'' Ricciardi said. ''This won't affect
anything. We'll be in constant contact with him.''

Several factors could be driving the apparent increase in activity at the
meetings, said Dave Dombrowski, the Boston Red Sox' new president for baseball
operations. A lot of team executives are new in their posts and eager to reshape
their clubs, and a lot of aggressive agents are eager to sew up deals for their
clients, with this free-agent class rife with pitching. In addition, many teams
were out of playoff contention early this year, so they have had lots of time to
create shopping lists.

''I've had many more conversations -- and serious conversations early,'' said
Dombrowski, who was fired as the Detroit Tigers' president and general manager
in August.

The questions for the Mets seem to be how they will address their offense,
particularly if they do not retain the free agents Daniel Murphy, a second
baseman, and Yoenis Cespedes, an outfielder. For the Yankees, there seem to be
fewer big-ticket items -- although the Yankees are always capable of making a
splash.

It appears unlikely that the Yankees will pursue Murphy, with Cashman saying the
profiles of Rob Refsnyder and Dustin Ackley -- currently the team's top
candidates to start at second -- mirrored that of Murphy, a better hitter than
fielder.

Cashman also said that C. C. Sabathia's recent monthlong stint in an alcohol
rehabilitation clinic would not factor into his projection of what the pitching
staff would look like.

''Listen, we got knocked out of the playoffs after one game,'' Cashman said,
referring to the Yankees' 3-0 loss to Houston in the American League wild-card
game. He added: ''So that means our roster's obviously not quite good enough
yet, and so my job is to see ways to put a better team on the field so that we
can dream bigger, whether that's rotation, bullpen, positionally, organizational
supplements, all of the above.''

INDIAN HAS SURGERY Cleveland outfielder Michael Brantley had surgery on his
right shoulder and will need as long as six months to recover. The team said
Brantley underwent an arthroscopic procedure on Monday to repair a small tear in
his labrum. He injured his shoulder trying to make a diving catch in Minnesota
on Sept. 22. (AP)

PUJOLS ON THE MEND The California Angels slugger Albert Pujols is recovering
after having surgery last week to repair the plantar plate in his right foot.
The team said that Pujols was expected to resume full baseball activities in
four and a half months, which would be late in spring training. (AP)

TWINS PURSUE KOREAN SLUGGER Minnesota won the bidding for negotiating rights to
Byung Ho Park, a 29-year-old first baseman who hit a total of 105 home runs over
the past two seasons in the Korea Baseball Organization.

Major League Baseball announced the notice from Park's team in South Korea, the
Nexen Heroes, that Minnesota's bid was the highest. The posting fee was not
disclosed by M.L.B. or the Twins.  (AP)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/baseball/mets-sandy-alderson-to-miss-ba
seball-meetings-for-medical-procedure.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson will miss the meetings to
undergo a medical procedure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX GOODLETT FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BASEBALL (90%);
SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS
(78%); MIDDLE MANAGEMENT (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPORTS (77%);
ATHLETES (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); MEDICAL TREATMENTS & PROCEDURES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%)

PERSON: DANIEL J MURPHY (71%)

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (74%); BOSTON, MA, USA (69%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (74%); MICHIGAN, USA (74%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Adding a Shakespearean Accent

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words


How do you write a play about the British royal family without making its
members seem risible, banal or irrelevant? Except for Queen Elizabeth, who
orbits in her own special universe, today's royals often appear to be trapped in
a dreary reality show whose ostensible dramas (Who did Kate wear? What did
Charles say?) are anything but dramatic.

That was the challenge faced by the British playwright Mike Bartlett when he set
out to write ''King Charles III,'' which imagines a shaky monarchy thrown into
crisis after the death of Elizabeth. He solved it in an unexpected way, by
employing the language of Shakespeare to transform his protagonists from
cardboard figures of ridicule into full-blown characters of tragedy and pathos.

Using blank verse written mostly in iambic pentameter, Mr. Bartlett took a crowd
of easily lampoonable people -- Prince Charles, his wife Camilla, the Duchess of
Cornwall, and the like -- and imbued them with philosophical acuity, subtle
motivation, Machiavellian cunning, tortured self-doubt and even principled
heroism. The experiment has paid off. The play, a hit in London, opened at the
Music Box Theater on Broadway this month to rapturous reviews.

In an interview during a brief visit to New York, where he had traveled for the
play's opening, Mr. Bartlett said that the play would not have worked if it had
been written in everyday prose.

''I realized that the best way to tell the story was to make Charles a
Shakespearean tragic hero,'' he said. ''The idea that he's waited all his life
to do a job that he would have for only a short while felt really
Shakespearean.''

In the play, Charles asserts his ancient rights as an English monarch by
refusing to give royal assent -- typically a rubber-stamp exercise -- to
Parliamentary legislation that would limit freedom of the press. This sets off a
constitutional and familial crisis and a cascade of scheming and maneuvering
among politicians as well as royals.

Blank verse is verse that does not rhyme. An iamb is an unstressed syllable
followed by a stressed one (da-DUH), and iambic pentameter refers to a line
containing five iambs, for a total of 10 syllables. It sounds perhaps more
daunting than it really is. In fact, one reason it was widely used in
Elizabethan drama was that it almost mimics our natural speaking rhythm, even as
it allows for richer language.

Iambic pentameter was the obvious form for something so unlikely and dramatic,
Mr. Bartlett said, because it allows for ''a heightened version of how we speak,
with a sense of formality and a fluidity.'' It also enables the characters to
use graceful rhythm and metaphor-rich language to explore, in conversation and
in soliloquy, profound questions of identity, destiny and conscience without
sounding pretentious or grandiloquent.

''There are not many forms where a character can turn to the audience and spend
two or three minutes speaking without your thinking, 'This is terrible,''' Mr.
Bartlett said.

At 35, Mr. Bartlett is a multiple-award winning author of several earlier, often
provocative plays. But before taking on ''King Charles III,'' he had no
experience writing in a Shakespearean manner.

He had to steep himself in the form. He wandered around the house narrating
things to himself in iambic pentameter until the rhythm felt fluent and easy in
his head. He also played around with scenes on paper and found, he said, that
''they weren't funny -- they were moving.''

''It made me realize that this isn't a poetry of romantic poets sat at a desk
trying to work out what the next word is, or about the beauty of the verse,'' he
said. ''This is verse in the service of the drama, serving the second-by-second
psychology of the character.''

The seasoned Shakespearean actor Tim Pigott-Smith, who plays Charles, said that
the form propelled his character through the intense psychological upheavals he
is forced to endure, and that the sly contemporary flourishes in the language
helped make the play ''alive and modern and witty'' so that it evokes the past
while seeming of the moment. (He cited a tiny example, when the opposition
leader in Parliament says ''It's a mix-ED bag,'' taking an enthusiastically
un-Shakespearean phrase and mischievously throwing in an extra syllable.)

''What he's done with this play is a remarkable achievement, and I haven't seen
anything like it before,'' Mr. Pigott-Smith said.

''King Charles III'' begins immediately after the queen's funeral, with a
self-doubting Charles addressing the great change that has befallen his country
and himself. Then suddenly the scene switches. Charles's younger son, Harry, who
serves as a kind of Prince Hal character, goes to a nightclub and meets a young,
nonaristocratic woman who will upend his life.

For that scene Mr. Bartlett switches to more naturalistic speech --
unpunctuated, quick, pungent, full of sentence fragments -- as Shakespeare did
when he shifted focus from highborn to low-ranking characters. ''You feel
there's a difference not just in vocabulary but in rhythm,'' Mr. Bartlett said.
''The king was talking in iambic pentameter; Harry was talking in Cheapside
tavern-prose.''

The play reverberates with echoes of Shakespeare's history plays and their
familiar themes of legitimacy, ambition, power and the internal torment of
people born or thrust into positions of authority. There are allusions to ''King
Lear,'' ''Macbeth'' and ''Hamlet'': princes having identity crises; a ghostly
figure (Diana, still causing trouble); an aging, petulant, bewildered king
forced to confront the limitations of his powers; and a sinuously conniving wife
ordering her husband to man up. (Kate, in a pleasant surprise.) Students of
Shakespeare will find a phrase or two directly lifted from the real thing.

Mr. Pigott-Smith said that Mr. Bartlett had used techniques to move the verse
along, making the rhythms at once stately and conversational. For instance, he
said, the playwright often divides two lines of blank verse into three discrete
phrases, something Shakespeare did only rarely. (As an example, during a time of
particular soul searching, Charles says: ''I am an empty vessel, waiting for/
Instruction, soulless and uncorporate.'')

''If you get to the end of the line, it creates a moment of, 'What am I going to
say next?''' Mr. Pigott-Smith said. ''It keeps the language very alive and
present and creative.''

Working in this structured way does not seem to have affected Mr. Bartlett's
writing or his restless, experimental spirit. Among other things, he created and
wrote the screenplay for a BBC television drama, ''Doctor Foster,'' that started
this fall, and he has a number of other, non-iambic-pentameter-related theater
projects in the works.

''You want to surprise the audience,'' he said. ''You don't want them coming
through the door thinking, 'Oh, good, I know what this is going to be.' One of
the great things about the theater is that there's no one form.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/theater/mike-bartlett-turns-to-shakespeare-to-
voice-his-king-charles-iii.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mike Bartlett, at an office in London, where his play ''King
Charles III'' became a hit before moving to the Music Box Theater on Broadway.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM JAMIESON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1)
 Tim Pigott-Smith, center, as the title character in ''King Charles III,'' which
imagines a shaky monarchy thrown into full-blown crisis after the death of Queen
Elizabeth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH ROYALTY (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%);
BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); THEATER (90%); FAMILY (89%); WRITERS (78%); INTERVIEWS
(66%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (50%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (93%); PRINCE CHARLES (79%);
CAMILLA, DUCHESS OF CORNWALL (73%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Doling Out Major Opinions and 'Dogs,' Roberts Pursues a Strategy

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SIDEBAR; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1040 words


WASHINGTON --  When the chief justice is in the majority, he gets to decide who
will write the Supreme Court's opinion. This is, Justice Felix Frankfurter once
wrote, ''perhaps the most delicate judgment demanded of the chief justice.''

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. has approached the task with characteristic
rigor.

In one sense, a new study concluded, he is scrupulously fair: Every justice gets
very close to the same number of majority opinions. In another sense, he plays
favorites, doling out major assignments and unappealing ones with keen attention
to strategy.

Chief Justice Roberts finished his 10th term in June. In those years, he was in
the majority 86 percent of the time, according to the study, which was prepared
by Richard J. Lazarus, a law professor at Harvard, and published in The Harvard
Law Review Forum.

It is a safe bet that the chief justice assigned the court's opinions in almost
every one of those roughly 600 cases. Justices sometimes switch sides after the
initial vote, held in secret soon after cases are argued, so it is impossible to
know for sure. When the chief justice dissents, the senior justice in the
majority chooses.

Chief Justice Roberts made certain that each justice had almost exactly the same
number of majority opinions. His record on this score, Professor Lazarus found,
is ''unmatched by any prior chief justice.''

But not every opinion is equally desirable. Deciding which cases are most
important involves an element of judgment, though close observers of the court's
work will agree on them most of the time. Professor Lazarus relied on charts
published each term in The New York Times to identify 85 major cases.

That set of decisions tells a fascinating story about the Roberts court. The
chief justice assigned about a third of the big opinions to himself and another
third to Justice Anthony M. Kennedy.

The assignments to Justice Kennedy have a distinct purpose, Professor Lazarus
wrote: to lock in his vote in close cases.

''One of the easiest ways to reduce the risk of the swing justice swinging the
other way is to assign the opinion to that justice, thereby ensuring that the
opinion is one he or she will be willing to join, even if the court's holding
may be far narrower as a result,'' Professor Lazarus wrote.

After Justice Kennedy, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. was next in his share of big
cases, with 16 percent. Justice Sonia Sotomayor was alone in getting no majority
opinions in major cases.

The study's most surprising finding concerned Justice Alito, the junior member
of the court's conservative wing, and Justice Antonin Scalia, its senior member.

Justice Scalia joined the court in 1986 and is its longest-serving current
member. But he received about the same percentage of assignments in big cases as
Justice Alito, who did not arrive until 2006. ''Especially given how much
seniority plays a systemically important role within the court,'' Professor
Lazarus wrote, ''this is a striking result.''

Justice Alito is apt to write opinions of the sort Chief Justice Roberts
prefers, Professor Lazarus wrote: incremental, without rhetorical flourishes,
and able to command five votes.

Chief Justice Roberts has said that he has to exercise some self-discipline in
his assignments. ''I can't take all the good ones for myself,'' he once told a
group of high school students, ''and I have to take my share of the dogs.''

But there is nothing unusual about chief justices keeping major cases for
themselves. It may be desirable, Linda Greenhouse, a former Supreme Court
reporter for The Times who now teaches at Yale Law School, wrote in 2013 in the
journal Judicature.

''A majority opinion by the chief justice serves a signaling function: evidence
that a question gripping the country has received the Supreme Court's full
attention and that the court's answer bears the imprimatur of the highest
judicial officer in the land,'' she wrote.

Ms. Greenhouse examined eight terms and found that Chief Justice Roberts had
assigned himself the major cases 29 percent of the time, or triple the average
rate. He took a particular interest in First Amendment cases.

Professor Lazarus also analyzed the minor, technical decisions that the justices
call dogs, identifying 74 and finding that they went disproportionately to
''less favored justices.''

The chief justice took his fair share: 11 percent. But the rate of Justice
Stephen G. Breyer, 21 percent, was almost twice as high. Justices Sotomayor,
Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Clarence Thomas also got more than their fair share.

''Interestingly,'' Professor Lazarus noted, ''Justice Scalia's dog assignments
have trended upwards over time.''

When Justice Alito joined the court, he was shadowed by ill-informed commentary
that he would be a junior varsity version of Justice Scalia. An offensive
nickname captured this school of thought: Scalito.

But Justice Alito has in some ways surpassed Justice Scalia in effectiveness,
Professor Lazarus said in an interview.

''While clearly a gifted and highly entertaining writer, Justice Scalia tends to
write both more broadly and harshly, which is not the chief's own style and,
worse, has caused Justice Scalia on occasion to lose the votes necessary for the
majority,'' Professor Lazarus said.

Justice Alito's profile is different, he said. ''I expect his favored status as
an opinion writer reflects the chief's trust in Justice Alito's skill in writing
opinions, including his ability to write opinions that are narrower and less
strident in their rhetoric,'' Professor Lazarus said.

The special role of Justice Alito was evident when the justices took their
places on the bench on June 30, 2014. They were ready to announce the last two
decisions of the term and, as usual, had left the biggest rulings for last.

The cases, concerning contraception and public unions, were decided by 5-to-4
votes, with the court's conservatives in the majority.

Chief Justice Roberts spoke first, introducing his key ally. ''Justice Alito,''
he said, ''has the opinion of the court in our remaining two cases this
morning.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/politics/locking-in-votes-and-doling-out-do
gs-how-roberts-assigns-opinions.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., center, and Justice Anthony
M. Kennedy at the State of the Union address in January. Each has written about
a third of the Supreme Court's major opinions. (POOL PHOTO BY MANDEL NGAN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); SUPREME
COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (94%); ANTONIN SCALIA (89%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (89%); SAMUEL
ALITO (78%); SONIA SOTOMAYOR (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.A.W.'s Tentative Deal With Ford Tops Other Automaker Contracts

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 617 words


DETROIT --  Local leaders of the United Automobile Workers on Monday endorsed a
proposed new labor agreement with Ford Motor Company that is slightly richer
than contracts agreed to by union workers at General Motors and Fiat Chrysler.

The move by the union leadership paves the way for voting on the four-year
agreement by more than 52,000 workers at Ford.

The tentative deal with Ford mirrors the pay increases included in agreements
with G.M. and Fiat Chrysler, including a provision that entry-level workers
would eventually achieve wage parity with veteran employees.

But the Ford deal calls for an $8,500 signing bonus for union members, compared
with $8,000 at G.M. and as much as $4,000 at Fiat Chrysler. If the contract is
ratified, Ford workers will get a $1,500 advance on their annual profit-sharing
payouts for this year.

The union's top Ford negotiator, James Settles Jr., called the deal a
''hard-earned victory'' for workers at the company, which has been achieving
record profits in North America, primarily because of surging demand for its
pickups and sport-utility vehicles.

The agreement included a guarantee by Ford of $9 billion in new investments in
its plants in the United States, which is expected to secure or create 8,500
jobs.

One analyst said that Ford workers were rewarded for the company's longer-term
performance, which included avoiding the bankruptcies and major restructurings
that occurred at G.M. and the former Chrysler Corporation.

''It is a modestly richer agreement that reflects the fact that Ford did not
slip into bankruptcy and has had somewhat stronger results in recent years,''
said Harley Shaiken, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who
has worked with the union in the past.

The Ford agreement appears to be the conclusion of what has turned out to be
groundbreaking labor talks between the U.A.W. and the Detroit automakers.

Union leaders entered the negotiations this summer determined to preserve jobs
and gain wage increases for the first time in more than decade.

In addition, the U.A.W.'s president, Dennis Williams, made a high priority of
closing the wage gap between entry-level workers hired since 2007, and longtime
employees.

Entry-level employees had been earning between $16 and $19 an hour in the
previous contract. But under the new agreements, those workers will get raises,
over time, that will bring their wages in line with the $29 an hour earned by
veteran employees.

With the companies benefiting from robust sales of high-profit trucks and
sport-utility vehicles, it hardly made sense for G.M., Ford and Fiat Chrysler to
pinch pennies with workers who had ridden out the tough times during the most
recent recession.

''Nothing would be as damaging for these companies than to have disgruntled work
forces coming out of these negotiations,'' Mr. Shaiken said. ''Some of these
workers have been to hell and back in the last decade.''

Ford workers will most likely begin voting on the new agreement this week.

But a snag in the autoworker contract talks still remains, with G.M. Last week,
about 55 percent of all union workers at G.M. approved their proposed contract.

A majority of the company's skilled-trades employees, however, voted against the
deal. According to union rules, both skilled-trades workers and production
workers must ratify the agreement separately.

The U.A.W. can overrule the rejection by the skilled-trades employees, if the
union finds that they voted it down for reasons unrelated to their job
classifications, like being dissatisfied with the economic terms of the
contract.

Union officials are meeting with skilled-trades workers to learn why they
rejected the deal.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/uaws-tentative-deal-with-ford-tops-ot
her-automaker-contracts.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGREEMENTS (92%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (91%);
AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TENTATIVE LABOR AGREEMENTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
AGREEMENTS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES
(89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES
(87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (78%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT
SHARING (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS
(77%); JOB CREATION (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY
(64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); FCA US LLC (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (91%); FIAT
CHRYSLER AUTOMOBILES NV (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (91%); FCAU (NYSE) (58%); F
(BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%);
NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER
CAR BODIES (96%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (91%); SIC3523 FARM
MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (58%)

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Beer and a Few Shots of the Walls, Please

BYLINE: By RICHARD FAUSSET

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1166 words


ATLANTA --  The artist and documentary filmmaker Ruth Dusseault calls the stuff
that has found its way onto the walls of Manuel's Tavern, a beloved
Eisenhower-era dive bar here, an ''organic archive'' and a ''60-year
installation piece.''

Those may be the loftiest descriptions ever applied to an overwhelming accretion
of dusty beer cans, moldering sports pennants, law enforcement uniform patches,
snapshots of well-known politicians and anonymous tipplers, risqué oil paintings
traded as payment for ancient tabs, and the unmarked vessel, mounted above a
shelf of drying pint glasses, that contains the ashes of Manuel Maloof, the
original owner of the bar, who was once a towering figure in local Democratic
Party politics.

Ms. Dusseault, a lecturer in the communications department at Georgia State
University, is convinced that these items tell a rich and complex story of
Atlanta. In an ambitious and slightly weird act of scholarship, she and a group
of local academics have begun digitally documenting all of the curios and
ephemera for an online research project they have titled ''Unpacking Manuel's
Tavern.''

Ms. Dusseault likened the idea of examining the junk on the walls of a bar to
the work of archaeologists. ''They'll go to a site, and they have a fascination
with garbage,'' she said, ''because it can tell them so much about the
civilization they're studying.''

In a city that often plows under the old and historical to make room for the new
and trendy, Manuel's, founded in 1956, has proved to be an enduring exception.
In the shifting bucket of baubles that is Atlanta's bar and restaurant scene, it
is the eternally greasy ball bearing -- a relentlessly unpretentious place
offering cheap drinks and eschewing music for the rhythm of conversation and the
soundtrack of cable news. Hot dogs feature prominently on the menu.

''It was never a kind of place you'd want to wear white pants in,'' said Jim
Stacy, a restaurateur and TV host who grew up in Atlanta. ''It is a grande dame
of being a dive bar, let's be honest.''

Manuel's has also played an outsize role in the region's political culture. From
1980 to 1992, Mr. Maloof, the son of Lebanese immigrants, served as chairman and
then as chief executive of DeKalb County, the vote-rich suburb that includes a
sliver of Atlanta and sprawls beyond its eastern flank.

When he died, in 2004, an obituary in The Atlanta Journal-Constitution referred
to him as the ''profane, hot-tempered and big-hearted barkeep'' whose gruff
demeanor harked back to a lost time before politics ''became pasteurized by
image consultants and focus groups.''

Democratic politicians often came to pay respects, and the photographs on the
wall are proof. There are Georgians: Senators Sam Nunn and Wyche Fowler (Mr.
Fowler is depicted drawing a beer) and Gov. Zell Miller. There are also
out-of-towners, most prominently Vice President Al Gore and President Bill
Clinton, beaming as they stand on either side of Mr. Maloof, who wears a white
dress shirt and suspenders.

Jimmy Carter, a longtime regular, announced his intention to run for Georgia
governor at Manuel's in 1970. Today, the outside of the bar is adorned with a
get-well-soon sign addressed to ''Jimmy.''

The bar is still known as a Democratic Party stronghold, although fondness for
the place has become more bipartisan over the years. It remains a haunt for
journalists, political consultants and political junkies who pack the tavern for
major presidential debates, appending them with streams of ripostes and snark.

''It's like watching a hockey game in Michigan,'' said Karen McCarthy, an Emory
University doctoral candidate in philosophy who is working on the project.

Much of Mr. Maloof's political career was spent managing growth, and he would
have appreciated that the Eastside neighborhood where his bar sits, known as
Poncey-Highland, has transformed from mildly sketchy to highly desirable, as
Atlanta's suburban-raised children seek out a more urban experience.

This year, Ms. Dusseault was among those who panicked a little when news broke
that a developer, Green Street Properties, had bought Manuel's and the
surrounding parking lots, and that the bar was going to be renovated.

''There was a fear,'' she said, ''of the identity of the place being erased.''

Those fears were quickly assuaged by Brian Maloof, the bar's current owner and a
son of Manuel Maloof, who said a three- or four-month renovation would mostly
involve upgrades to the guts of the place -- the electrical system, roof,
kitchen and bathrooms. An apartment building will be built on an adjacent
parking lot. But Mr. Maloof has promised that most of the decorations will be
returned to their place on the walls of Manuel's after the renovation, which
will start after Christmas.

''We want it clean and organized,'' Mr. Maloof said on a recent afternoon,
sitting under a Budweiser sign and munching on a plate of fries. ''But not too
clean.''

This summer, Ms. Dusseault brought her project idea to Mr. Maloof, who
enthusiastically signed on. For one, the digital images will help him recall
where to rehang everything.

For the last few months, Ms. Dussault and her colleagues from Emory, Georgia
State and the Savannah College of Art and Design have been carefully capturing
high-resolution digital photographs of the walls of Manuel's. Visitors to the
website will eventually be able to visit a virtual Manuel's, zooming in on items
on the walls and clicking on them to reveal historical details gathered by young
scholars.

The story of Mr. Maloof and his famous political allies will allow for the
telling of a top-down version of history. But young historians who prefer the
bottom-up, ''people's history'' method favored by the likes of Howard Zinn will
find much here, as well. One wall dedicated to law enforcement officers features
a photograph of Sherry Lyons-Williams, an investigator who was shot and killed
serving a warrant to people suspected of being drug dealers in 2001, just after
she had stopped by Manuel's for lunch.

Behind the bar, near Manuel Maloof's ashes and a box containing those of his
brother, Robert, a third receptacle contains the remains of a regular named
Calvin Fluellen. He was the first African-American to graduate from the Grady
Memorial Hospital School of Radiology in Atlanta, in 1971. (Brian Maloof had a
little cage built for the urn: He knew, he said, that when Mr. Fluellen's
friends had consumed a few drinks, one would eventually say, ''Hey, let's see
Calvin!'')

But what will the scholars make of the dusty stuffed rodent over the front
entrance? What of the plaque underneath it proclaiming the ''Darrell Caudill
Memorial Door,'' a reference to an inside joke that Brian Maloof said he could
not divulge? What of the enigmatic photograph from 1961 of a handsome young man,
decked out in a track-and-field uniform, whose story Mr. Maloof cannot recall?

If a dive bar is to remain a dive bar, perhaps it must retain a few mysteries.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/digital-dig-unpacks-atlanta-dive-bar-stuffe
d-to-the-gills-with-history.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kendric Smith and other patrons at Manuel's Tavern in Atlanta.
Academics are digitally documenting its ephemera in recognition of its role in
local history.
Top, a picture of President John F. Kennedy hangs at Manuel's Tavern, a longtime
Democratic haven where Jimmy Carter was once a regular. Above, a door at the bar
is adorned with mostly Democratic political stickers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN D.
LILES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)
 Ruth Dusseault, left, an artist and documentary filmmaker and a lecturer at
Georgia State University, capturing highresolution digital photographs of the
decorations in Manuel's Tavern in Atlanta. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HASTINGS HUGGINS
WORKS) (A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%);
RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PAINTING
(78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE
(78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (75%); ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES
(69%); FOCUS GROUPS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); STYLISTS & IMAGE
CONSULTANTS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER
PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING
(60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (70%); JIMMY CARTER (55%)

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mamet Play's Opening Delayed by Two Weeks

BYLINE: By MICHAEL PAULSON

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 522 words


The producers of ''China Doll,'' a new play written by David Mamet and starring
Al Pacino, said on Monday that the play requires more work than they had
expected and so they are delaying the official opening by two weeks.

The play, bolstered by Mr. Pacino's star power, has been selling very strongly
at the box office, but there has been some skeptical early buzz about Mr.
Mamet's play and Mr. Pacino's performance, and the delay will both lengthen the
amount of time the team has to work on the project before critics weigh in, and
reduce the effect of reviews because they will run later in the play's limited
run and after the traditionally lucrative Thanksgiving weekend.

The play began previews on Oct. 21; it had been scheduled to open Nov. 19, but
instead will now open Dec. 4. The final performance is still scheduled to be
Jan. 31.

''New material is going in this week and new material went in this past
weekend,'' Jeffrey Richards, the lead producer, said. ''Considerable work has
been accomplished on the production since its first performance, and the
producing team is very pleased with the development of this very exciting new
American play by a major American playwright.''

Mr. Richards, along with his producing partners Jerry Frankel and Steve Traxler,
are longtime champions of Mr. Mamet who have presented the writer's plays on
Broadway and in the West End nine times. Mr. Richards rejected questions,
prompted by the criticism and failure of some of Mr. Mamet's recent works, about
whether Mr. Mamet remains as strong a writer as he once was.

''David Mamet is among our best writers, period,'' he said. ''But any time David
Mamet goes to bat, like any great playwright, he becomes a target -- whether he
is Eugene O'Neill, or Tennessee Williams, or Edward Albee, or David Mamet, he
becomes a target.''

Mr. Richards called ''China Doll,'' which is being directed by Pam MacKinnon,
''one of David's best plays'' and said ''the audience response has been very
encouraging.'' But he also said, ''It's always very difficult to begin a play in
New York City that's never been done anywhere before.''

He also said Mr. Pacino ''is doing exemplary work,'' and, responding to reports
in The New York Post about his alleged reliance on prompters, said, ''he has
learned his lines.''

Because the play is now opening on a Friday night -- unusual on Broadway -- many
news organizations are likely to publish reviews online late Friday, and, for
daily newspapers, in print on Saturday, when audiences are relatively low. But
Mr. Richards said the opening scheduling was driven by other concerns -- a
reluctance to open over Thanksgiving weekend, when critics might not be free; a
need to have several nights to accommodate all the theater media (as is done by
every show), and and a decision to avoid opening at the same time as ''School of
Rock,'' which is set for Dec. 6. But he said news publications could choose to
run reviews ''when they deem it appropriate'' after the opening -- Saturday,
Sunday, Monday or Tuesday.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/11/09/delayed-opening-for-mamets-china-do
ll/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (92%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS
(90%); THEATER (90%); WRITERS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER
PUBLISHING (60%); THANKSGIVING (54%)

PERSON: AL PACINO (91%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rowling (as Galbraith) Is Impac Nominee

BYLINE: By BBC

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 119 words



''The Silkworm,'' authored by J. K. Rowling under the pseudonym Robert
Galbraith; ''A Brief History of Seven Killings'' by Marlon James, below; and
''All the Light We Cannot See'' by Anthony Doerr are among 160 novels nominated
for the 2016 International Impac Dublin Literary Award. Others on the list
include ''The Bone Clocks'' by David Mitchell and ''The Incarnations'' by Susan
Barker.

The 100,000-euro award (about $108,000), is the world's most lucrative literary
prize for a single work. Libraries around the world nominate novels for the
award. Mr. James's won the Man Booker Prize, and Mr. Doerr's won a Pulitzer.

This year's nominees include 44 novels by American authors and 25 by British
writers. (BBC)




URL:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%);
LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); FICTION LITERATURE (90%)

PERSON: J K ROWLING (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

How a Small Indie Magazine Gets Fashion's Hottest Tell-Alls

BYLINE: By VANESSA FRIEDMAN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Style Desk; ON THE RUNWAY; Pg.

LENGTH: 856 words


When Raf Simons left Christian Dior just over two weeks ago -- a designer
departure felt round the world -- he did so with the usual anodyne joint news
release containing generic quotes in which he and Dior management expressed
their mutual appreciation and respect. That, they said, was the end of it; no
one involved was giving any further interviews.

Except, it turned out, Mr. Simons already had.

This week, System, a twice-yearly independent glossy magazine (about, yes, the
fashion system) headquartered in London, lands with a thud on select newsstands
(the racks at the Palais de Tokyo bookstore in Paris, or Dover Street Market in
New York, to give you an idea). The cover story is an eight-page interview with
Mr. Simons, as well as more than 100 pages of Juergen Teller photographs of Mr.
Simons's last two shows for Dior, their audiences and his collection in the
halls of Versailles.

Though written before the news of his exit broke (they stopped the presses to
rewrite the editors' letter and add an epilogue), the piece, by Cathy Horyn, the
former New York Times fashion critic and current critic-at-large of The Cut, is
about as close to an exit interview as you could imagine.

Consider, for example, Mr. Simons's musings on how ''when you do six shows a
year, there's not enough time for the whole process''; ''you have no incubation
time for ideas,'' and ''technically speaking, it works, but does it work for me
emotionally? No, because I'm not the kind of person who likes to do things so
fast.'' After all, the conversations took place between seasons, from March
through August, and it was during the summer that Mr. Simons was negotiating his
contract with Dior, and deciding not to renew.

As it happens, this is the second exit interview from a major designer System
has landed. The debut issue, which featured the designer Nicolas Ghesquière on
the cover and his first post-Balenciaga interview inside -- an interview that
caused Balenciaga's owner, Kering, to sue Mr. Ghesquière.

And it is the third collector's item piece, coming after a stand-alone portfolio
of Kim Kardashian and Kanye West in which the reality star was styled by her
husband in a nude bodysuit, black stockings and bronze bra, and photographed by
Mr. Teller rolling around in the countryside -- who then photographed himself in
similar poses.

For a publication that has produced only six issues total, only about 15,000
copies of each (until a recent print run expansion to 50,000) and an editorial
board of four people (Jonathan Wingfield, Elizabeth von Guttman, Alexia
Niedzielski and Thomas Lenthal), that's a pretty noteworthy track record.

So what does it offer that other glossies don't?

Two things. First: ''Time,'' Mr. Wingfield said -- that being, as Mr. Simons
pointed out, the one luxury designers do not have in today's world. Interview
take place over a period of approximately six months, and the subject has to
commit to multiple meetings, which allow for ''a real conversation, not just a
canned hotel room interview.'' An opportunity, perhaps, ''to get things off your
chest.''

Second, ''It's personal,'' Ms. von Guttman said. In the fashion world, the game
of Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon would be more aptly named Six Degrees of System.

The editors asked Ms. Horyn to interview Mr. Simons because they knew, Ms. von
Guttman said, ''that they have a strong relationship.'' Ms. Horyn herself was
interviewed, in issue No. 5. (She also appears on the masthead of the current
issue, though she emailed that there is ''no official arrangement.'') In the
Teller portfolio is a portrait of Ms. von Guttman hugging Mr. Simons. Mr. Teller
appeared on the cover of the magazine in 2014. The first issue was guest-edited
by the stylist Marie-Amélie Sauvé, a longtime friend, muse and collaborator of
Mr. Ghesquière.

Ms. von Guttman and Ms. Niedzielski, the public faces of the magazine, are as
much a part of the fashion world as the subjects they cover: favorites of
street-style photographers, and on every event invitation list. Mr. Lenthal, the
magazine's art director, is married to Victoire de Castellane, the fine jewelry
creative director at Dior. And so on.

To be in its pages is to be part of the in-crowd, or -- as Fiona Duncan wrote
for the hipster publication Bullett when System was unveiled -- ''F.U.B.U.: For
us, by us'' (which may be why, according to Ms. von Guttman, Mr. West kept
asking to be included until the editors finally came up with the Kim project).
It is to feel you are among friends, which can lead, perhaps, to a sense of
false security.

''It does feel safe,'' Ms. von Guttman said, noting that the magazine would not
try to harm its interviewees. ''But we're not going to write a press release
either.''

Still, even the magazine can't ignore its momentum, so expansion is planned.
According to Ms. von Guttman, a Chinese version is in the works, and a full
website is planned for 2016.

As for the next big interview? ''I don't know,'' Ms. von Guttman said. ''But I
bet Alber Elbaz'' -- the designer whose recent firing from Lanvin shocked the
fashion world -- ''would have a lot to say.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/fashion/system-magazine-interview-seems-to-sig
nal-why-raf-simons-quit-dior.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (68%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (67%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN DIOR SA (92%)

TICKER: CDI (PAR) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS315240
WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3171
WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (92%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES &
SHIRTS (92%)

PERSON: KIM KARDASHIAN (50%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Robin Williams's Gift

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 246 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Widow Cites Dementia in Suicide of Williams'' (Arts pages, Nov. 4), in
which Susan Schneider Williams discusses the various health challenges the
comedian Robin Williams faced:

The extraordinary Robin Williams has given us yet another extraordinary gift: an
urgent invitation to discuss one of the most challenging medical and ethical
issues of our time. What do we do with knowledge of our futures, especially when
clouded by the likely emergence of dreaded medical disorders?

As we enter a new era of genetic testing, functional brain imaging and the
adoption of previously unimaginable new diagnostic technologies, we will become
privy to information that raises infinite questions.

Do parents own genetic knowledge of their children? Is such information to be
shared, and by whom?

What is the psychological impact of such knowledge on families and our larger
society? Can knowledge of our futures spur us to better life choices? How do
life choices affect specific outcomes?

Will priorities of medical research shift as those with the greatest financial
means become the earliest adopters of expensive diagnostic interventions?

There are no easy answers, but, like the compelling talent of this great
performer who now bestows an entirely new legacy, these questions are impossible
to ignore.

RONNIE S. STANGLER

New York

The writer is a psychiatrist and a clinical professor of psychiatry and
behavioral sciences at the University of Washington.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/opinion/robin-williamss-gift.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEMENTIA (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%);
MEDICAL RESEARCH (88%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); SUICIDE (78%); FAMILY (77%); BIOETHICS
(77%); GENETIC SCREENING (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (75%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BRAIN (73%); WRITERS (73%); ETHICS (71%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); MEDICAL ETHICS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (54%)

PERSON: ROBIN WILLIAMS (95%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Truth and Lies: The Orwellian World of Politics

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 235 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Candidates Stick to Script, if Not the Truth'' (front page, Nov. 8):

When candidates reject known truths as lies, and call their lies truth, our
public discourse becomes Orwellian indeed. Bravo to The Times for calling these
people out. Our precious democracy is being eroded by their tactics.

Unfortunately, many voters are easily persuaded if verifiable lies are repeated
without repudiation. The critical question is, How could we trust a candidate
who blatantly lies as a campaigner to be honest with the people if elected
president and commander in chief?

JOHN W. MAY

Pittsford, N.Y.

To the Editor:

Dr. Ben Carson has been feeling the heat of media scrutiny, and he doesn't like
it. Who would? But the candidate is wrong to suggest that the treatment is
unfair and unwarranted. He is, after all, running for president on the strength
of his personal story, so the media has the responsibility to verify the
circumstances and claims that are important to his candidacy.

And if it turns out that Dr. Carson is more Walter Mitty than Chauncey Gardiner,
that is still less damaging than failing to provide solid policy proposals to
counter the perception that he is unaware of how government actually operates.

It is less important to the voters where Dr. Carson has been and more important
where he plans to take the country and how we will get there.

BUCK RUTLEDGE

Knoxville, Tenn.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/opinion/truth-and-lies-the-orwellian-world-of-
politics.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES
2016 (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BEN CARSON (74%)

CITY: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (50%)

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama's Rejection of Keystone Pipeline

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 577 words


To the Editor:

Re ''President Rejects Keystone Pipeline, Invoking Climate'' (front page, Nov.
7):

Although I'm delighted that President Obama canceled the Keystone XL oil
pipeline, it is worth setting his decision in the context of his earlier
ambitions.

In June 2008, upon clinching the Democratic nomination for president, Mr. Obama
rousingly declared, ''This was the moment when the rise of the oceans began to
slow and our planet began to heal.'' More than seven years later, with the rise
of oceans having dramatically accelerated, we are left cheering Mr. Obama's
long-deferred decision -- which was always his alone to make, yet dragged on
through most of his presidency -- to abandon a project expediting access for the
world's dirtiest oils to global markets.

On a day of triumph, it's hard not to think how our once soaring ambitions have
been stifled, and how tortuous has been the path that advanced us so little, so
late. Will timorousness and delay on problems of the greatest urgency be Mr.
Obama's most lasting legacy?

FRANÇOIS FURSTENBERG

Baltimore

To the Editor:

Re ''No to Keystone, Yes to the Planet'' (editorial, Nov. 7):

I certainly agree that more needs to be done to combat climate change and to
wean ourselves off fossil fuels. So does the new prime minister of Canada,
Justin Trudeau (who is also in favor of Keystone). But I do not see how
rejecting Keystone accomplishes that.

The scourge of our age is not only that the world is dependent on oil, but that
it is dependent on Middle East oil. This puts vast funds into the hands of the
most repressive regimes and fuels terrorism throughout the world. By rejecting
Keystone, the Obama administration has favored domestic producers and Middle
East producers in preference to its neighbor to the north and contrary to the
North American Free Trade Agreement.

The Obama administration, to its credit, has opened up more domestic oil
production. But it has done precious little to combat consumption. It has not
proposed a carbon tax and it has not done nearly enough to wean us off oil in
favor of alternate fuels.

You may think that the symbolism in rejecting Keystone is that the
administration is serious about climate change. But the real message is that the
administration is willing to take the legitimate interests of what should be its
closest friend and ally for granted, for a politically symbolic gesture that
does nothing to curb fossil fuel consumption. The oil producers in the Middle
East have won another one.

NORM JESIN

Toronto

To the Editor:

The Keystone XL pipeline became a symbol in the fight against climate change.
But from the beginning and for the better part of seven years, Nebraskans were
fighting a battle for the protection of our land and water, and for the
livelihoods of the farmers and ranchers in our nation's heartland.

While it was President Obama who ultimately rejected the pipeline, landowners
and their legal team were responsible for ensuring that TransCanada didn't have
an approved route through Nebraska.

Legal pressure from the State of Nebraska caused the federal pipeline approval
process to stall, allowing for a nationwide movement to mature. Nebraskans may
have started the fight against the Keystone XL pipeline, but they didn't finish
it alone.

I applaud President Obama for rejecting the Keystone XL pipeline.

ELIOT BOSTAR

Lincoln, Neb.

The writer is executive director of the Nebraska League of Conservation Voters.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/opinion/obamas-rejection-of-the-keystone-pipel
ine.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES
(89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY
(78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (72%); TRADE TREATIES
& AGREEMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS
EXTRACTION (61%); AGREEMENTS (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TERRORISM
(50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); TREATIES &
AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JUSTIN TRUDEAU (74%)

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (54%)

STATE: EARTH (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (77%); ONTARIO, CANADA (54%)

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (93%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES
(77%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Indefinite Detention

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 203 words


To the Editor:

Senator Dianne Feinstein's Nov. 5 Op-Ed essay, ''Let's Finally Close
Guantánamo,'' misses the mark. While she is certainly right to call for the
closing of the detention facility, her suggestion that a group of detainees
should be moved into the United States for continued detention without charge is
appalling.

A detainee named Obaidullah is likely to be included in that group. Like 48
others in Guantánamo, he is not facing charges but has not yet been cleared for
transfer. So he waits in limbo, for 13 years and counting.

If Senator Feinstein is suggesting that the United States detain Obaidullah
''until the end of hostilities,'' then under the government's forever-war
paradigm, Obaidullah could very well die in American custody without ever being
tried and convicted.

The senator's plan is not good enough. The purpose of closing Guantánamo should
be to end the human rights violation of indefinite detention without charge --
not merely move it to a new location and change Guantanámo's ZIP code. If the
United States does not intend to prosecute a detainee in a fair trial, it should
release him. No exceptions.

STEVEN W. HAWKINS

Executive Director

Amnesty International USA

Washington




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/opinion/dont-just-move-guantanamo.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RELOCATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS
(77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); FALSE IMPRISONMENT (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS
(76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CLOSINGS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (55%)

PERSON: DIANNE FEINSTEIN (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wojciech Fangor, Master of Color, Is Dead at 92

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 980 words


Wojciech Fangor, one of the most distinctive painters to emerge from postwar
Poland, died on Oct. 25 in Warsaw. He was 92.

His death was confirmed by Prof. Margaret Soltan of George Washington
University, a family friend.

Mr. Fangor, who was known for his blurred circles, amoebas and cloud shapes in
dense, saturated colors that seemed to throb and swirl, first became known in
the United States in the 1960s, when his work was included in two group
exhibitions at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. In 1970, he had a one-man
show at the Guggenheim Museum.

His work, perched midway between Color Field painting and Op Art, dazzled
critics, notably John Canaday of The New York Times, who reviewed the work in
rapturous tones.

''As a colorist he has extended the limits -- and keeps on expanding them -- of
the simplest optical laws,'' Mr. Canaday wrote, calling him ''the great romantic
of Op Art, working not by rule but by a combination of intuition and experiment,
appealing not to reason but to our yearning toward the mysterious.'' In Mr.
Fangor's hands, he wrote, the visual trickery of Op Art became ''a portal
opening on to new experiences of color in space.''

Wojciech Fangor (pronounced VOY-teck FAHN-gor) was born in Warsaw on Nov. 15,
1922, into a wealthy family. After the outbreak of World War II, he joined his
mother and sister at a family home in Klarysew, about 10 miles southeast of
Warsaw, and took private art lessons with Tadeusz Pruszkowski and Felicjan
Kowarski.

After the war he was granted a diploma in absentia from the Academy of Fine Arts
in Warsaw, where he later taught, and for a time painted in a figurative style
that reflected his interest in Cubism, French Impressionism and German
Expressionism.

After Socialist Realism became Poland's official style in 1949, Mr. Fangor
turned out paintings with a political message, notably ''Korean Mother,'' which
depicted a small Korean boy grieving over the body of his mother, killed by
American bombs, and ''Lenin in Poronin.'' In the arresting ''Figures,'' he
placed two stalwart proletarian workers, a man and a woman, next to a coolly
glamorous Western woman, with bright-red manicured nails, wearing oversize
sunglasses and a chic dress emblazoned with the words ''London,'' ''Wall
Street,'' ''Miami'' and ''Coca-Cola.''

Dissatisfied with painting as a propaganda medium, he became a founding member
of the Polish Poster School, known for its bold, modernist design, and created
hundreds of film posters. In the new atmosphere of artistic freedom that took
hold in the Soviet bloc after Stalin's death, Mr. Fangor began experimenting
with abstraction, using oil on primed canvas, rather than acrylic, as most Color
Field painters did. Oils gave his work a much denser concentration of color.

He achieved national fame with a 1958 installation at the New Culture Salon in
Warsaw, ''Study of Space.'' Staged in collaboration with the architect Stanislaw
Zamecznik and the designer Oskar Hansen, it put 20 of his optical paintings on
display. A more ambitious version of the installation, called ''Color in
Space,'' was shown in Amsterdam at the Stedelijk Museum the following year.

In 1961, MoMA included one of his paintings in the exhibition ''15 Polish
Painters,'' and a year later he toured colleges and art schools in the United
States on a grant. Along the way, he met the powerful critic Clement Greenberg,
a champion of Color Field painting.

It was not a happy encounter, as Mr. Fangor recalled in an interview with the
art magazine Zoo last year. ''In 1962, during a private dinner, Greenberg said,
'It is interesting what you are doing, it connects with our young American
painting school, but you should paint on raw canvases. A painting is not a
lollipop.' I tried to explain my idea about space to him, but he was totally
uninterested.''

In 1965, MoMA included Mr. Fangor, with 98 other artists, in ''The Responsive
Eye,'' a comprehensive survey of Op Art that traveled around the United States.

After teaching in West Berlin and in Britain, he emigrated to the United States
in 1966 and soon began showing at the Galerie Chalette on the Upper East Side.
He also taught art at Fairleigh Dickinson University in Teaneck, N.J. By the
time of that Guggenheim show, however, interest in Op Art was waning, and his
career went into decline.

In the 1970s, he began incorporating images from television into his work,
breaking them into pixel-like dots of color. He later included fragments of
scenes, characters and objects drawn from famous paintings or popular magazines
in his work.

In 1999, Mr. Fangor, who is survived by his wife, Magdalena Shummer-Fangor,
returned to Poland, where he set up a studio in an old mill in Bledow, near
Warsaw, and enjoyed a career resurgence.

He created graphic design for the new metro line in Warsaw, whose first segment
opened in March, and in 2012 he was the subject of a retrospective exhibition at
the National Museum in Krakow. Last week, a survey show of his installations and
sculptures opened at the Center for Polish Sculpture in Oronsko.

''Pity that this came when I was 90 and not when I was 40,'' he told Zoo
magazine.

Last year, the gallery 3 Grafton Street in London reintroduced Mr. Fangor in
''Color, Light, Space,'' exhibiting his most vibrant abstractions from the 1960s
in the show curated by Simon and Michaela de Pury. For many critics it was a
revelation. In Artnet News, Coline Milliard praised Mr. Fangor for his
''absolute command of the blur,'' a technique that sent his forms into tremulous
motion.

''The impression of movement is so striking at times that it looks as if the
pigment is dancing on the picture plane, permeating the space that separates
viewer and canvas,'' she wrote. ''The ensemble is a joyfully riotous inversion
of traditional perspective: infectious, unsettling, exhilarating.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/arts/design/wojciech-fangor-painter-who-emerge
d-from-postwar-poland-dies-at-92.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left: Wojciech Fangor's ''M13,'' ''B15'' and ''Blue D.1.''
The painter, from Poland, acquired an international reputation.
 Wojciech Fangor's dense, saturated colors, which seemed to move, were a
hallmark of some of his most distinctive work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES
(90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); PAINTING (78%); HUMANITIES &
SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); BOMBINGS (73%); WORLD WAR II (69%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED
SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%)

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Campus Protests at Missouri Spur a Day of Change

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON and RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑA; John Eligon reported from
Columbia, and Richard Pérez-Peña from New York. Reporting was contributed by
Marc Tracy and Austin Huguelet from Columbia; Monica Davey and Mitch Smith from
Chicago; and Alan Blinder from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1872 words


COLUMBIA, Mo. --  Months of student and faculty protests over racial tensions
and other issues that all but paralyzed the University of Missouri campus
culminated Monday in an extraordinary coup for the demonstrators, as the
president of the university system resigned and the chancellor of the flagship
campus here said he would step down to a less prominent role at the end of the
year.

The threat of a boycott by the Missouri football team dealt the highest-profile
blow to the president, Timothy M. Wolfe, and the chancellor, R. Bowen Loftin,
but anger at the administration had been growing since August, when the
university said it would stop paying for health insurance for graduate teaching
and research assistants.

It reversed course, but not before the graduate assistants held demonstrations,
threatened a walkout, took the first steps toward forming a union and joined
forces with students demonstrating against racism.

Then the university came under fire from Republicans for ties its medical
schools and medical center had to Planned Parenthood. The university severed
those ties, drawing criticism from Democrats that it had caved in to political
pressure.

But it was charges of persistent racism, particularly complaints of racial
epithets hurled at the student body president, who is black, that sparked the
strongest reactions, along with complaints that the administration did not take
the problem seriously enough.

Gov. Jay Nixon, a Democrat, said, ''Tim Wolfe's resignation was a necessary step
toward healing and reconciliation on the University of Missouri campus, and I
appreciate his decision to do so.''

Many of the students and faculty members who took part in demonstrations had
also been inspired by the protest movement sparked last year in Ferguson, a
suburb of St. Louis, after a white police officer there killed Michael Brown, an
unarmed black man, and they were experienced at using social media in
organizing. They saw themselves as part of a continuum of activism linking
Ferguson, other deaths at the hands of police, protests on campuses around the
country and the Black Lives Matter movement.

Mr. Wolfe, 57, was hired in 2012 from the corporate world, an outsider brought
in to cut costs in the four-campus system. That was no recipe for popularity,
but the last three months left him particularly isolated. He announced his
resignation just before a meeting of the university's governing body, the Board
of Curators, amid speculation that it might try to oust him.

Mr. Wolfe said he took responsibility for the anger and frustration on campus,
asserting that conversations with community leaders, students, faculty, donors
and others led him to his decision, more than just the football players'
threatened boycott.

''What was starting to become clear was the frustration and anger was evident,
and it was something that needed to be done that was immediate and substantial
for us to heal,'' Mr. Wolfe said at a news conference.

As the two resignations were announced, the Board of Curators unveiled a slate
of new initiatives to address racial tensions on campus, including hiring a
diversity, inclusion and equity officer for the entire University of Missouri
system. The university will also provide additional support to students, faculty
and staff members who experience discrimination; create a task force to create
plans for improving diversity and inclusion; and require diversity and inclusion
training for all faculty, staff members and incoming students.

Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, praised the protests as showing
''that a few people speaking up and speaking out can have a profound impact.''

Officials said Mr. Loftin would remain at the university in a research role.

Opposition to the administration reached a peak in the last week. A graduate
student, Jonathan Butler, who was a veteran of the Ferguson protests, held a
highly publicized hunger strike, saying he would not eat again until Mr. Wolfe
was gone. Protesters formed an encampment on campus. A coalition of Jewish
groups told Mr. Loftin that they were ''dismayed'' by his lack of action after a
swastika was drawn on a dormitory wall. Deans of nine of its schools called for
Mr. Loftin's removal.

On Monday morning, the student government demanded Mr. Wolfe's ouster, and much
of the faculty sent word to students that classes were canceled for two days, in
favor of a teach-in focused on race relations.

But it was the football team that may have dealt the fatal blow to the
university's leaders, when players announced on Saturday that they would refuse
to play as long as the president remained in office, and their head coach, Gary
Pinkel, said he supported them. The prospect of a strike by a team in the
country's most dominant college football league, the Southeastern Conference,
drew national attention, and officials said that just forfeiting the team's game
Saturday against Brigham Young University in Kansas City, Mo., would cost the
university $1 million.

''That got the attention of the alumni and the board, along with a substantial
penalty they would have been facing,'' said Representative William Lacy Clay, a
Democrat who represents part of the St. Louis area. ''That would have been a
disaster for their recruiting of black athletes and of black students to the
university.''

Mr. Pinkel said the main concern of the players was Mr. Butler. ''My players
deeply cared about this guy, and he was dying,'' he said.

Though most players declined to speak Monday, a team captain, Ian Simon, said in
a statement that the players ''just wanted to use our platform to take a stance
for a fellow concerned student on an issue.'' He added, ''We love the game, but
in end of the day, it is just that; a game.''

Thousands of students and faculty members gathered Monday morning at the heart
of the campus. At word of Mr. Wolfe's resignation, some cheered, others hugged
and cried, a few danced, and Mr. Butler said he would eat for the first time in
a week.

The Board of Curators has the power to hire and fire top administrators, and the
curators are appointed by the governor. But Donald L. Cupps, a member of the
board, said Mr. Wolfe was not asked to leave, and resigned out of concern for
the university. ''We have a national image to protect and enhance,'' he said.

Not everyone was pleased with the resignations. W. Dudley McCarter, a former
president of the university's alumni group, said alumni, in calls and emails on
Monday, had expressed disappointment in Mr. Wolfe's decision. ''They feel like
he was backed into a corner and was made a scapegoat for things he didn't do,''
Mr. McCarter said.

A series of racist incidents in the last few months spurred calls for change.
Protesters said that the president at first did not take their complaints
seriously, and that his later responses were not strong enough or swift enough.

The president of the Missouri Students Association, Payton Head, who is black,
touched off the intense discussion of race in September when he posted on
Facebook that a group of men had yelled racial slurs at him, and said it was not
the first time he had suffered that kind of abuse at the university. His post
was shared thousands of times, and drew widespread coverage.

In early October, the Legion of Black Collegians, a student group, was
rehearsing a homecoming event when a white man walked onto its stage and used
racial epithets. When activists tried to confront Mr. Wolfe days later at the
homecoming parade, he avoided them.

Later that month, the swastika was found, scrawled on a wall in feces. An
activist group, Concerned Student 1950 -- a reference to the year the university
enrolled its first black student -- was formed to demand that the administration
address what it said was pervasive racism.

Representative Clay, who is black, said he spoke with Mr. Wolfe on Saturday
about black students' concerns and the health of Mr. Butler. Even at that late
date, the president was ''kind of oblivious to the fact that he was at the
center of this,'' Mr. Clay said.

Mr. Wolfe said on Sunday that ''a systemwide diversity and inclusion strategy''
that addressed student concerns would be unveiled in April. But that drew angry
reactions from protesters as being too little, too late.

The controversies drew the attention of major donors; some feared damage to the
university's standing and fund-raising.

''I think Tim Wolfe is a very competent leader, but there are three things in
crisis management that you have to do: Be abundantly honest, you have to work
quickly, and you have to control the message,'' said Don Walsworth, whose family
has given the university millions of dollars. ''Unfortunately, I don't think the
university did that.''

After the announcement of Mr. Wolfe's resignation, Mr. Butler told a cheering
crowd that the graduate students' protests and the push against racism were part
of a larger cause, and cited the months of protests, email campaigns and other
actions calling for change on campus.

''It should not have taken this much, and it is disgusting and vile that we find
ourselves in the place that we do,'' he said.

State officials said that behind the scenes, there had been growing dissension
among university leaders, and that Mr. Wolfe had wanted the Board of Curators to
fire Mr. Loftin, who became chancellor last year.

Michael A. Middleton, a deputy chancellor emeritus who was the university's
first black law professor, had been involved in talks between the administration
and protesters over policy changes. Some on campus said Mr. Wolfe was seen as
stiff and aloof, and Mr. Middleton said a confrontation between the president
and students on Friday outside a fund-raising event in Kansas City dealt a blow
to those talks. Still, as recently as Sunday night, Mr. Middleton said, Mr.
Wolfe seemed determined to stay on.

Mr. Wolfe moved to Columbia as a fourth-grade student, attended high school here
-- he was the quarterback of its state championship football team -- and earned
an undergraduate degree from Missouri, where his father was a communications
professor. He spent decades working at IBM, and later was a senior executive at
Novell.

He stepped into controversy almost as soon as he returned to the university
three years ago, withdrawing financial support from the University of Missouri
Press, then reversing course under fire. But last year, when the Board of
Curators voted to extend his contract to 2018, the move was not controversial,
said Don M. Downing, who was then the board chairman.

''President Wolfe has thoughtfully transformed our strategic planning process in
a way that focuses our limited resources on priorities while reducing or
eliminating waste and redundancies,'' said Mr. Downing, a former chief deputy
attorney general of Missouri, who no longer sits on the board. But given recent
events, he said, Mr. Wolfe's position was probably untenable, adding, ''It's a
sad day.''

But many students were jubilant. ''It was surreal -- I don't even know if I've
had enough time to fully process it,'' Reuben Faloughi said. ''I'm happy my
friend Jonathan survived, and I'm happy Tim Wolfe is no longer in charge of the
U.M. System.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/university-of-missouri-system-president-res
igns.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A woman signaled support Monday as she passed student
protesters' tent encampment at the University of Missouri in Columbia.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF ROBERSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
Protesters celebrated on the campus of the University of Missouri in Columbia
after the university system's president, Timothy M. Wolfe, left, announced his
resignation. Below left, Jonathan Butler, second from right, ended his weeklong
hunger strike after Mr. Wolfe's decision. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL BRENNER FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES
 JUSTIN L. STEWART/COLUMBIA MISSOURIAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS
(90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (90%); RACISM &
XENOPHOBIA (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); COUPS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%);
MICHAEL BROWN SHOOTING (78%); BOYCOTTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STUDENT
ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
PROFESSORS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%);
HEALTH CARE (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (68%);
PRESS CONFERENCES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (94%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF
AMERICA (55%)

PERSON: JAY NIXON (58%)

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (58%)

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (98%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Artificial Patients, Real Learning

BYLINE: By KAREN WEINTRAUB

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 983 words


BOSTON -- The patient's blood pressure had reportedly crashed in the ambulance;
a gunshot wound had damaged the heart. In the operating room, a medical
resident, Dr. Dan Hashimoto, slid a knife into the patient's chest and sliced
horizontally, from the sternum across the torso.

He thrust his hand into the gash, grasped the beating heart and squeezed, to the
tempo of 100 beats a minute.

Noticing bleeding from the right ventricle, Dr. Hashimoto stopped pumping to sew
up the hole. The pulse recovered, and blood pressure climbed.

Concerned there might be more bleeding in the belly, Dr. Hashimoto moved to stop
blood flow to the aorta. He struggled a bit to position the clamp.

''Remember your anatomy,'' the attending physician, Dr. Marc de Moya, advised
over Dr. Hashimoto's shoulder.

Moments later, Dr. de Moya pronounced the procedure a success.

Yet no one's life had been saved. Dr. Hashimoto, a third-year-resident at
Massachusetts General Hospital, had been practicing what is known as an
emergency department thoracotomy on a rubber and plastic dummy that -- but for
the fact that it did not have a head -- felt and acted remarkably like a human
body.

Simulations have been part of medical training for centuries. But technological
advances in computing, materials and production, including 3-D printing, are
driving so-called trainers to a level of realism previously unimaginable.

On Monday, at its annual Global Pediatric Innovation Summit, Boston Children's
Hospital unveiled two new simulators. One had the real feel of a newborn's skin,
muscle and pulsing veins that will be used to simulate a heart-lung bypass; the
other allows doctors to practice adding a drain to a brain overwhelmed with
fluid. Underneath the mannequins' silicone-covered torsos and necks are
hand-sculpted and molded muscles and blood vessels filled with mock blood -- the
right thickness to feel realistic.

The Children's Hospital simulators and the dummy simulating the thoracotomy at
Mass General were created by people with an expertise in movie special effects.
Fractured FX, which won an Emmy for its special effects in the show ''American
Horror Story,'' designed the mannequins for Children's. The Mass General
mannequin was made by the founders of The Chamberlain Group in Great Barrington,
Mass., who worked on special effects in movies like ''The Matrix.''

The materials are the same used on movie sets and to make prosthetics look real,
said Justin Raleigh, the chief executive of Fractured FX, but he added that the
company's standards of realism were far higher on the simulators than in
Hollywood. He shared magnetic resonance imaging tests, CT scans and hours of
conversation with Boston Children's engineers and doctors to get the anatomical
details right, down to the fibrous membrane between the muscle and veins.

Such cutting-edge realism enables medical teams to better learn, said Dr. Peter
Weinstock, who directs the expansive SIMPeds program at Boston Children's. At
Mass General, simulation has become a regular part of the practice of medicine,
to train students and to keep the skills of its 10,000 clinical employees
up-to-date, said Dr. James Gordon, the director of the hospital's MGH Learning
Laboratory. Ten departments across the hospital now have simulation setups --
including a mannequin stashed behind a curtain in a patient room in the ER -- so
busy hospital staff can easily slip training into their day.

Leading the simulation gave Dr. Hashimoto, the Mass General resident, the chance
to feel what it was like to hold a beating heart in his hand, to search through
a blood-soaked chest cavity for the source of leaks, and to practice the
physical maneuvers needed to hopefully save someone's life himself.

''Now, I can say I know exactly how this is supposed to go,'' he said after the
simulated procedure. ''Now I can be more helpful rather than being worried about
being in the way.''

Although simulator participants know they are working on plastic dummies
overseen by teachers, they often lose themselves in the moment. The bleating
monitors, open wound and pressure to diagnose or treat correctly make it feel
like the real thing.

''Once I opened the chest and saw the pericardium and saw blood around there,
that's when everything else got forgotten,'' Dr. Hashimoto said, referring to
the sac around the heart.

Both Boston Children's and Mass General, which funded its thoracotomy simulator
with a grant from the Department of Defense, plan to sell their simulators and
educational training programs to other teaching hospitals across the world.

Mannequins are not the only type of realistic simulators. Dassault Systèmes in
Waltham, Mass., has created a virtual 3-D heart model, to be used by device
makers developing products as well as doctors planning operations. It can be
controlled with a joystick and projected onto walls to transport viewers through
an anatomically correct beating heart.

Steve Levine, director of the company's Living Heart Project, is pushing to make
the simulation more personalized. Instead of showing a generic heart, Dr. Levine
is developing a visual library of different heart conditions; eventually he
hopes to offer surgeons a simulation using their patient's own anatomy.

Children's Hospital's simulators will soon have a plug-and-play component, Dr.
Weinstock said, where a surgeon preparing to operate, say, on a brain tumor will
be able to 3-D print the child's cancer from a CT scan, and then insert it into
the trainer for a run-through.

Dr. Gordon of Mass General said his vision for the future of simulation came
from Star Trek's holodeck. He wants to see a trainee walk into an empty room,
push a button and be immersed in a virtual version of surgery, while feeling the
sensation of cutting through real flesh. ''People are beginning to build the
building blocks of what this might look like,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/health/heart-surgery-simulation-medical-traini
ng.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ­Medical students discussing anesthesia at Massachusetts
General Hospital next to a training simulator, top. Boston Children's Hospital
also uses a simulator for training purposes, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK JACOBS
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); PHYSICIAN FELLOWSHIPS
& RESIDENCIES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES (89%);
ANATOMY & PHYSIOLOGY (89%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (89%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS
(87%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (78%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS
(73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (70%); PEDIATRICS (69%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (69%); 3D
PRINTING (65%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Hall of Fame Career, at Least in Seattle

BYLINE: By VICTOR MATHER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 476 words


Consider these two major league ballplayers.

The first played for 11 seasons, 10 of them as an All-Star. He led the league in
home runs four times, belting 56 homers twice. He won a Most Valuable Player
Award as well as 10 Gold Gloves in the outfield. In all, he amassed 398 home
runs and batted .299.

The second player also played 11 seasons, but he earned only three All-Star
selections. He never led the league in any category or earned any major awards.
He hit only 232 home runs and batted .262.

Those two players are the same man, Ken Griffey Jr., who was a superstar in
Seattle and little more than a journeyman from then on.

Hall of Fame voters will get a chance to assess his divided career this year, as
Griffey is the highest-profile new name on the ballot released Monday.

There are several intriguing questions on the ballot, including that of how to
evaluate the value of reliever Trevor Hoffman; whether Mike Piazza can get the
last 5 percent he needs to be elected; and how the thinning of some older
writers from the voting ranks will affect the balloting.

But the headlines are likely to go to Griffey, whose power and personality make
him one of the most popular candidates in years.

Age, of course, has a lot to do with Griffey's decline. His seasons with Seattle
took him from 19 to 29, around the time that most players peak. Injuries took
their toll as well; Griffey managed to play only 140 games in a season three
times in his later years and never 150.

But Griffey's production fell off even more precipitously than that of most
aging sluggers. The decline began when Seattle agreed to trade him to his
hometown team, the Cincinnati Reds, who signed him to a nine-year, $116.5
million contract. The trade was hailed as a steal for the Reds at the time.

Griffey hit 40 home runs in 2000, but then fell off to 22 and 8 as injuries
limited his playing time. He never hit 40 again. His home run percentage,
on-base average and slugging percentage all began to drop steadily. He never won
another Gold Glove, and he received a total of five votes for M.V.P.
post-Seattle.

Young Griffey stole 167 bases. Old Griffey stole 17.

Griffey, whose annual wins above replacement totals ranged from 3.2 to 9.7 in
Seattle, put up a 5.5 in his first year with the Reds and a 3.7 in a rejuvenated
2005, but otherwise he never exceeded 1.9. A brief late-career stop with the
White Sox and a return to the Mariners at age 39 let him pad his career totals a
little more but were otherwise fruitless.

The consensus is that Griffey will sail into the Hall of Fame; over all in WAR,
he ranks third on the ballot behind Barry Bonds and Roger Clemens, whose links
to performance-enhancing drugs have kept them out.

When he is elected, we might as well consider the young Ken Griffey Jr. the
enshrinee, and try to forget the post-Mariners years.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/baseball/mariners-saw-the-hall-of-fame-
version-of-ken-griffey-jr.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ken Griffey in his final year with the Reds in 2008, left, and
playing in the 1990 All-Star Game, right, as a Mariner. He hit 398 homers in his
first 11 seasons with the Mariners, before age and injuries took a toll.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARC SEROTA/GETTY IMAGES
 ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); ATHLETES (89%);
CELEBRITIES (78%); SPORTS INJURIES (77%)

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE MARINERS (59%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (53%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (96%); OHIO, USA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Charting the X's and O's of a Protest Movement

BYLINE: By MARC TRACY; Steve Walentik contributed reporting from Columbia.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 897 words


COLUMBIA, Mo. --  Jonathan Butler's hunger strike to protest what he viewed as
systemic racism at the University of Missouri, where he is a graduate student,
was raised to the level of national news Saturday night, when black Missouri
football players went on strike pending the removal of the university system
president, Tim Wolfe. On Sunday, the rest of the Tigers squad joined in, and
their coach backed them.

A couple of hours after Wolfe resigned Monday afternoon -- a week after Butler's
hunger strike began -- the protester Ayana Poole smiled when she told a crowd of
hundreds gathered on Missouri's Mel Carnahan Quadrangle that the team was back
in action.

''They will continue to practice,'' she said of the Tigers (4-5, 1-5
Southeastern Conference), who will host Brigham Young (7-2) in Kansas City, Mo.,
on Saturday night.

The scene illustrated the team's ability to effect change.

''Football has a long history in America of always bringing people together and
making attention,'' said Payton Head, the president of the Missouri Student
Association. Noting that the first homecoming game was generally thought to have
been played here in 1911, he added: ''They came back to be home. They unified
around a game.''

Pastor James Gray, who had helped lead protesters in prayer, referred to the $1
million Missouri would have forfeited had the B.Y.U. game not taken place.

''When we got together with the football team, it hit them in the purse,'' he
said. ''It makes a difference.''

Even Athletic Director Mack Rhoades acknowledged the team's effort. ''They
decided to be leaders on this issue,'' he said.

Several football players recognized early on their potential power, and by
Saturday night, they realized they possessed the leverage to exert it.

''We just wanted to use our platform to take a stance for a fellow concerned
student on an issue,'' safety Ian Simon, a team captain, said in a statement
Monday.

Coach Gary Pinkel said at a news conference Monday that he was persuaded to back
his players not because of politics or a desire to see Wolfe removed, but
because of their concern for another student's life.

''I believe they felt if we don't help him, if he doesn't start eating, he's
going to die,'' Pinkel said, referring to Butler.

He added: ''I just know my players were suffering and they felt awful. And,
again, I'm like their dad, you know? And I wanted to help them in any way.''

Wide receiver J'Mon Moore said Monday that a friend told him about Butler. He
first met him Wednesday, and as they talked, Butler collapsed, spurring a sense
of urgency. Moore and safety Anthony Sherrils began making plans for a strike on
Thursday, although there had been no plans to boycott that night's home game, a
31-13 loss to Mississippi State.

''White teammates were aware, and once we explained to them the things that were
going on on campus, and we informed them some of the issues, they were
definitely on board,'' Moore said. ''They understood where we were coming
from.''

Pinkel said that on Saturday night several players asked him if it was O.K. if
they visited the encampment on Carnahan quad that had been struck up in
solidarity with Butler. Pinkel agreed. They called later that night, determined
to strike.

''They were very emotional; very, very concerned for his life,'' Pinkel said.
''At that time, they were discussing what they would plan on doing.''

Pinkel suggested several alternatives. At other colleges, he noted, teams have
marched through campus or put decals on their helmets to draw attention to
causes.

''We went back and forth,'' he said. ''I kept asking, was it the right thing to
do, should we wait? And I'm now talking to guys with tears in their eyes,
crying. And they asked me if I was going to support them.''

He did, and although he tried to persuade them to wait until the next morning,
they sent out a Twitter message announcing the strike that night. Pinkel
acknowledged that some players had most likely learned of the strike via
Twitter.

According to The Missourian, the players communicated their plans to protesters
earlier Saturday via Pat Ivey, the strength and conditioning coach and a former
player, as well as another former player. Ivey is the leader of Mizzou Men for
Men, a group for athletes that discusses topics including race and treatment of
women. He declined to comment Monday.

Pinkel pointed to Men for Men as a way for athletes to engage with campus
issues, noting that two weeks ago the group discussed race and came up with
things the team could do that would be of benefit.

''There are problems on our campus, and the good news is we're going to make it
better,'' Pinkel said.

On Sunday, Pinkel posted on Twitter a photo of the players and a message: ''The
Mizzou Family stands as one. We are united. We are behind our players.''

On social media and in person Monday, several black players articulated support
and affection for Pinkel, who is white.

''I knew from the jump that Coach Pinkel was going to support us,'' Moore said.
''Coach Pinkel supports his players. We're all his sons.''

Pinkel and Rhoades denied that any kind of precedent had been set. In his 39
years of coaching, Pinkel said, he had never experienced anything like this.

''We run a very disciplined, structured program here,'' he said.

''But under these circumstances, you back off a little bit.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/ncaafootball/charting-the-xs-and-os-of-
a-protest-movement.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%);
ATHLETES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR
ACTIVITIES (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); PRESS
CONFERENCES (77%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (73%);
MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (91%); SOUTHEASTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE
(56%)

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (58%)

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Solution to Sexting? More Texting

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ZIMMERMAN.

Jonathan Zimmerman teaches history and education at New York University and is
the author of ''Too Hot to Handle: A Global History of Sex Education.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 909 words


''YOUTH is subjected by our civilization to aggressive sex stimuli and
suggestiveness oozing from every pore.'' So declared the education professor
Clark Hetherington in 1914, condemning the proliferation of racy movies and
tell-all magazines. Lest adolescents succumb to the ''indulgence'' on display,
he wrote, schools needed to teach ''self-control'' and ''higher standards.''

Sound familiar? For the past century, we've been worrying that new forms of
media are fostering sexual immorality in the young. And we've called upon our
schools to stem the evil tide. Witness the recent ''sexting'' revelations at
Cañon City High School in Colorado, where it is reported that 100 students
traded naked pictures of themselves and one another. As the story went viral,
critics have inevitably asked why the school hadn't done more to educate
students about sexting.

The schools are an easy target, but the wrong one. Public ambivalence about
youth sexuality limits what the schools can do, nor do we have strong evidence
that schools can affect teenagers' behavior, in any event. And it's hardly
certain that youth sexting is the dangerous scourge that most adults imagine.

Let's be clear: There are serious risks associated with teen sexting, including
bullying and exposure to adult sexual predators. And we know that kids who sext
are more likely to have sex than those who don't. But beyond that, nobody has
ever shown that the sexting induces kids to engage in riskier behavior. In a
2012 study of seven high schools in Texas, 28 percent of sophomores and juniors
admitted that they had sent a naked picture of themselves over text or email.
But these teenagers were no more likely than their nonsexting peers to engage in
other risky sexual behaviors, like unprotected intercourse, alcohol or drug use
before sex, or sex with multiple partners.

Nor do all sexting teenagers experience trauma or bullying, as popular reports
suggest. Many teenagers regard sexting as a normal part of courtship -- as
necking in the car was for earlier generations. Back then, of course, what
happened in the back seat stayed there and wasn't splayed across the Internet.

What hasn't changed is our reliance on schools, which have been called upon once
again to clean up a perceived sexual crisis. In Texas, the ''Before You Text''
program warns students that sexting can yield ''embarrassment, humiliation,
fear, and betrayal.'' A curriculum used in the Miami-Dade County public schools
declares flatly, ''Safe Sexting, No Such Thing.'' But our kids already know that
sexting can be embarrassing and humiliating, in certain situations. And they
also know that it can be perfectly innocuous in others, as when a romantic
couple shares intimate photos and deletes them right afterward.

What they need is someone to help them sort out which is which. And that is
something our schools probably can't do. A curriculum that honestly appraised
the risks of sexting would draw fire from parents and politicians who think
adolescents should simply abstain from sexting (and, for that matter, from sex).
Surveys have repeatedly shown that most parents favor sex education in our
schools, but they also differ sharply about what the subject should contain. So
the safest course for school officials is to focus on so-called plumbing lessons
and to avoid anything controversial. And even frank sex education in schools
might not make much difference in the lives of our teenagers, who have always
drawn their sexual knowledge more from the hated mass media than from their
teachers.

That was certainly the case in the 1920s, at the dawn of modern Hollywood, when
educators worried that students were taking their sexual cues from movie stars.
With the rise of pornography and sexually explicit rock 'n' roll lyrics in the
1960s and '70s, schools again struggled in vain to impose order on world that
seemed to be spinning out of control. ''A 12-minute filmstrip is hardly a match
for two years of 'R'-rated films every weekend,'' the director of the National
Association of Secondary School Principals admitted in 1981, adding that
''schools are a puny David without even a slingshot against the media Goliath.''

So how should we address the issue of sexting? What if we tried to meet the kids
where they are? The most promising sex education initiatives right now are
text-messaging services, which allow teenagers to submit questions anonymously
and receive informed answers. In North Carolina and Texas, these services are
operated by public health departments; others are run by organizations like
Planned Parenthood. And they're catching on quickly among teenagers, especially
among those whom researchers believe are at the greatest risk. In Washington, a
study of a statewide text-messaging program that connects kids to trained health
educators found that students from lower socioeconomic backgrounds were more
likely to use the service than other kids were.

So the best answer to sexual text messages probably lies in ... other text
messages. Parents, not schools, should be our primary sex educators, of course.
But most of them grew up in a time well before sexting, so they'd be wise to
introduce their children to a more up-to-date source. Instead of relying on
David's meager public-school slingshot, let's look to the media Goliath's most
powerful club. It's called a smartphone, and it got us to this crisis. It's also
our best hope for moving to a better place.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/opinion/schools-cant-stop-kids-from-sexting-mo
re-technology-can.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY AYUMI TAKAHASHI)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXTING (94%); TEXT MESSAGING (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%);
STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%);
SEX SCANDALS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%);
CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (78%); COURTSHIP & DATING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY
EDUCATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); VIRAL
VIDEOS (77%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS
(70%); ADULTS (65%)

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (51%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (65%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing | Middle East; Yemen: New Jersey Man Could Receive Death Sentence
at Hearing, Lawyers Say

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 746 words


CAIRO -- Lawyers for an American held prisoner in Yemen's capital said that
their client could be sentenced to death on murder charges at his next hearing
scheduled for Wednesday, despite the difficulty of conducting a trial during
Yemen's civil war.

The prisoner, Sharif Mobley, who is from New Jersey, was allowed to make a rare
phone call late last month to his lawyers in London telling them that the prison
where he was being held in Sana, the capital, had been hit by airstrikes and
that he had been repeatedly beaten in custody.

Mr. Mobley was brought before a judge in October without a lawyer and told that
a verdict could be passed at his next court hearing.

''They're going to make a ruling without me being able to defend myself,'' Mr.
Mobley told his lawyers at Reprieve, an international human rights organization,
according to a recording of the call provided by the group. Namir Shabibi, an
investigator at Reprieve, said on Monday that the group had found a local lawyer
to represent Mr. Mobley at his next hearing, but that they were still concerned
that the judge could move directly to sentencing their client without a trial.

Mr. Mobley was arrested in January 2010 in a sweep of suspected militants tied
to the Yemeni branch of Al Qaeda. He was later charged with murder after being
accused of killing a hospital guard during an attempted escape. He is one of
several American prisoners who have been held in Yemen.

Since war broke out in March between Houthi rebels and a Saudi-led military
coalition backing Yemen's exiled government, the United States has successfully
negotiated the release of at least three Americans held in Yemen. At least one
other American, in addition to Mr. Mobley, is believed to remain in custody.

An American official last visited Mr. Mobley in December 2014, Mr. Shabibi said.
In the last seven months, he said, his organization had sent several letters to
the Obama administration, warning that the prison where Mr. Mobley had been held
could be targeted by coalition warplanes and ''pleading for basic assistance.''
The United States is providing military support to the Saudi-led coalition.

Mr. Shabibi said the group received ''perfunctory'' responses from the American
government and one message from the State Department, asking, ''Is Sharif still
in Yemen?''

The State Department did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Mr.
Mobley's case.

In an emotional call to his lawyers on Oct. 26, Mr. Mobley said that a prison
where he had been held was bombed twice by the coalition. ''The prison was
attacked and many people died, and all of the prisoners escaped except four or
five,'' including him, he said. Mr. Mobley said he had been beaten by his
captors, including the prison manager who hit him in the face with a stick while
he was handcuffed.

He told his lawyers late last month that he was being held in solitary
confinement. ''I can't really explain everything or else they're not going to
let me make phone calls any more but, I've been in leg chains for the last four
months,'' he said.

Mr. Mobley seemed to know little of the details of what had transpired in Yemen
since his last phone call to lawyers, in May, and asked for an ''update.''

''In a few words, because I'm afraid for my life, I'm hearing bombs every day,
and they're very close to the prison,'' he added.

Sana has been under the control of the Houthi rebels for more than a year and
has come under heavy bombing by Saudi warplanes, which have struck military
bases, security agencies and government buildings, as well as residential homes.
The bombing, along with severe shortages of fuel and electricity, have left
Yemeni institutions, including the courts, barely functioning.

It was unclear whether the rebels were directly overseeing prisons or
responsible for the decision to press ahead with Mr. Mobley's prosecution.
Several government and security agencies remain effectively in the hands of
officials from previous Yemeni governments, including those loyal to former
president Ali Abdullah Saleh, who remains in Yemen and is an ally of the
Houthis.

The United States closed its embassy in Yemen in February and has strongly
backed the exiled Yemeni government.

During the phone call, Mr. Mobley said his captors were ''showing a lot of
animosity to me because I'm an American,'' and asked for his government's help.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/middleeast/yemen-prisoner-sharif-mobley.
html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (93%); SENTENCING (92%); MURDER (91%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT
(90%); CORRECTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PRISONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS
(78%); JUDGES (78%); ARRESTS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS
(73%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (68%);
TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (65%); AL-QAEDA (65%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (64%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

CITY: SANAA, YEMEN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%)

COUNTRY: YEMEN (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Importer Selling Laminate Flooring From China Faces Formaldehyde Claims

BYLINE: By RACHEL ABRAMS; Dan Levin and Adam Wu contributed reporting from
Beijing.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1254 words


As Lumber Liquidator s continues to struggle after a safety crisis over its
Chinese-made laminate flooring, a much smaller flooring company has been drawn
into the spotlight.

The hedge fund manager who publicly accused Lumber Liquidators of selling wood
with dangerous levels of formaldehyde is leveling the same claims against Ark
Floors, a California importer of Chinese wood products that are sold all over
the United States.

The continued presence of potentially contaminated flooring underscores the
federal government's stalled efforts to regulate formaldehyde, a carcinogen,
health and environmental advocates say. They say the absence of a national rule
from the Environmental Protection Agency, which wants to adopt California's
rules for wood products, makes it too easy for dangerous items to enter and
remain in the American market.

''It's really disturbing to me that the E.P.A. hasn't gotten the rule out by
now,'' said Tom Neltner, the chemicals policy director for the Environmental
Defense Fund. ''Consumers shouldn't have to worry about, 'Is this good wood or
bad wood?' ''

Formaldehyde, which can cause respiratory ailments like asthma, can be found in
many common items, like clothing, cleaning supplies and furniture. It is often
used in the glue that binds scraps of wood in cheaper products like laminate.

Gradually, the formaldehyde seeps into the air.

Test results from five types of Ark laminate show levels of formaldehyde ''well
above'' the emission standards set by the California Air Resources Board,
according to Josh Hosen, senior manager of certification programs at HPVA
Laboratories, a testing company in Reston, Va. Whitney Tilson, the hedge fund
manager who runs Kase Capital Management, hired HPVA to run the same tests on
Ark's products that the lab had done on Lumber Liquidators' products.

Representatives from Ark did not respond to requests for comment. A spokeswoman
for A&W Woods, Ark's Chinese supplier, told a reporter to call back in a week.
When pressed, she said: ''I don't care. Go ask the operator to find you someone
else then. Do you understand me?'' Then she hung up.

In 2012, some of A&W's products were pulled from Chinese store shelves because
of concern over formaldehyde, according to an article from Xinhua, China's
official news agency.

It is difficult to know exactly where Ark's laminate was sold and whether the
products are still on store shelves in the United States. Mr. Tilson has bet
against the stock of the online retailer, Wayfair, which sold the products on
its website and through Walmart.com.

While Wayfair listed some Ark products among its best-selling laminate, Jane
Carpenter, a spokeswoman for the website, said it had sold just 10 orders since
December 2014, including one order through Walmart.com. Jaeme Laczkowski, a
spokeswoman for Walmart.com, confirmed that the site had sold one order of
laminate through Wayfair before the product was removed.

For years, health advocates like Mr. Neltner have been pushing for a national
standard for formaldehyde in wood products, which would affect a variety of
items, including floorboard and furniture. They succeeded in 2010, when Congress
ordered the E.P.A. to adopt standards based on those in California, the only
state with such regulations.

But opposition from industry groups, Democratic and Republican lawmakers and
even the Chinese government has delayed those efforts. That coalition also wants
the E.P.A. to ease major testing requirements in the landmark health standard.

A spokesman for the agency, Nick Conger, said it was taking longer to adopt
standards because all of the issues had to be considered carefully. The agency
said it expected to issue a final rule in the spring.

In the meantime, the lack of oversight has health advocates like Mr. Neltner
worried about what consumers can still buy for their homes. Wayfair, for
example, sold Ark's laminate products as recently as Oct. 1.

In response to an inquiry from a reporter that day, Ms. Carpenter, the Wayfair
spokeswoman, said the company had since removed all of Ark's laminate from its
website because Ark notified Wayfair that it had discontinued its laminate as of
Oct. 1.

''In any situation where we are aware of possible safety concerns with a product
that we sell, we take immediate steps to remove the product from site while we
investigate the situation,'' Ms. Carpenter said. ''The safety of our customers
always comes first.''

In a follow-up phone call, Ms. Carpenter said that representatives from Ark had
told Wayfair that all of the products sold on the site were certified under
California's standards, which are commonly referred to as CARB, for California
Air Resources Board.

Lumber Liquidators' stock has dropped more than 70 percent since Mr. Tilson
appeared in a March 1 episode of the CBS program ''60 Minutes,'' which accused
the company of selling Chinese-made laminate flooring that contained unsafe
amounts of formaldehyde.

The Consumer Product Safety Commission opened an investigation in March, and in
May, Lumber Liquidators announced that it would suspend sales of laminate
products from China.

But other companies, including Home Depot and Ark, appear to have sold laminate
from some of the same Chinese mills that supplied Lumber Liquidators, raising
questions about other products for sale in the United States.

''We all believe it's a pervasive problem,'' said Denny Larson, an environmental
consultant who works with plaintiffs' lawyers. ''It's not just a Lumber
Liquidators problem.''

Ark Floors, the North American subsidiary of the Chinese wood company A&W, which
also goes by Anxin, bought its laminate from at least two of the same Chinese
mills that supplied Lumber Liquidators, according to shipping data and
interviews with former Ark employees. Ark sells its products to distributors,
which then sell them to retailers throughout the country.

Another Lumber Liquidators mill supplied laminate to Home Depot in the United
States and Canada last year, according to the shipping data, which was collected
by Panjiva, an online search engine that provides information on global trade.

Stephen Holmes, a spokesman for Home Depot, confirmed that one of the company's
vendors sold it a ''limited amount'' of flooring that used parts from that mill,
but that ''even in that scenario, we require that all of our suppliers comply
with applicable laws and regulations.''

A list of Lumber Liquidators' mills was provided by Richard Drury, a lawyer who
filed a class-action lawsuit against the company on behalf of consumers.

Mr. Drury said that, while he would be suspicious of any products coming from
those mills, testing would be necessary to determine whether they complied with
California's rules. His office tested flooring samples from Lowe's and Home
Depot and found no violations, although it is unclear which mills made those
samples.

Shortly after ''60 Minutes'' broadcast its report on Lumber Liquidators,
employees at Ark were told that the company no longer sold laminate to
California customers unless it had a CARB-compliant label, three former
employees said. Another former employee, Tim Wang, who said he had worked in the
sample department of Ark's California warehouse until July, confirmed that the
company sold noncompliant flooring outside of the state.

On its website, Ark says that all of its ''engineered products'' adhere to
California's emission standards, and the site links to one formaldehyde test
report for its ''natural plywood.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/laminate-maker-ark-is-accused-of-sell
ing-tainted-flooring.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALDEHYDES (93%); FLOORING (91%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (90%); AIR
QUALITY REGULATION (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); RETAILERS
(77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US
ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); AIR
QUALITY (76%); ASTHMA (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%);
NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); EMISSIONS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%);
CARCINOGENS (70%); CHEMICALS REGULATION & POLICY (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL
RESOURCES (70%); CONSERVATION (70%); TEST LABORATORIES (70%); INTERNET RETAILING
(60%)

COMPANY: LUMBER LIQUIDATORS HOLDINGS INC (58%); CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD
(54%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE
(55%)

TICKER: LL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442210 FLOOR COVERING STORES (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE
(54%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

NATO Exercise Unwittingly Put Soviets on 'Hair Trigger' in '83, Analysis
Suggests

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 860 words


In December 1988, Jörg Winger was a West German Army radio operator
eavesdropping on Soviet military channels when he overheard a startling message:
The Russians wished him Merry Christmas by name.

''That was the moment where we realized that we had moles on the base,'' he
recalled.

Mr. Winger, now a television producer, and his wife, Anna LeVine Winger, an
American author, later harvested that incongruous holiday greeting as grist for
a retro series, ''Deutschland 83.'' They consulted a historian who provided an
even more dramatic narrative arc: In 1983, according to recently declassified
documents, the Russians apparently became convinced that a NATO nuclear training
exercise code named Able Archer 83 was a cover for an actual nuclear strike
against the Warsaw Pact nations.

Last month, the American government finally declassified a presidential analysis
of Able Archer and the Russian response that definitively dramatized how the two
superpowers came closer to a nuclear war than at any time since the Cuban
missile crisis two decades earlier -- and, this time, by accident.

''In this case truth turned out to be at least as strange as fiction,'' said
Klaas Voss, the historian at the Hamburg Institute for Social Research who
advised the producers. ''The war scare was as real as it gets.''

Dr. Voss and the Wingers knew of the story but not of the document until it was
made public.

According to the Feb. 15, 1990, analysis by the President's Foreign Intelligence
Advisory Board, ''In 1983 we may have inadvertently placed our relations with
the Soviet Union on a hair trigger.''

The fact that the Warsaw Pact's military response to Able Archer was
''unparalleled in scale,'' the board concluded, ''strongly suggests to us that
Soviet military leaders may have been seriously concerned that the U.S. would
use Able Archer 83 as a cover for launching a real attack'' and that ''some
Soviet forces were preparing to pre-empt or counterattack a NATO strike launched
under cover of Able Archer.''

''This situation could have been extremely dangerous if during the exercise --
perhaps through a series of ill-timed coincidences or because of faulty
intelligence -- the Soviets had misperceived U.S. actions as preparations for a
real attack,'' the report said.

While the Soviets were transporting nuclear weapons to launchers and assigning
priority targets, NATO commanders appeared to be either oblivious to the
apprehension in Moscow -- already jittery over the Reagan administration's Star
Wars missile defense initiative, the deployment of American Pershing II missiles
in Europe and the incapacitation by illness of much of the aging Soviet
leadership -- or discounted it.

In ''Deutschland 83,'' an East German spy who has infiltrated the alliance
command reveals himself to avert a war. In reality, Lt. Gen. Leonard H.
Perroots, deputy chief of staff for intelligence of American Air Forces in
Europe, made what the advisory board described as a ''fortuitous, if
ill-informed'' decision not to respond to signs of the elevated Soviet military
alert.

''Really scary,'' the board's report quoted President Ronald Reagan as saying in
June 1984 after he read ''a rather stunning array of indicators'' of Soviet
aggressiveness in the wake of Able Archer compiled by his C.I.A. director,
William J. Casey.

The advisory board's heavily redacted 94-page report was made public last month,
11 years after the National Security Archive at George Washington University, a
nongovernmental group that focuses on transparency, asked that it be
declassified.

''This new report is the first all-source assessment, as of 1990, and should
clinch the debate: This is hugely important. This war scare was real,'' said
Thomas S. Blanton, the archive director. ''Turns out, 1983 is a classic, like
the Cuban missile crisis, where neither superpower intended to go nuclear, but
the risk of inadvertence, miscalculation, misperception were just really high.
Cuba led J.F.K. to the test ban. Nineteen eighty-three led Reagan to Reykjavik
and almost to abolition.''

The document came to light as tensions between Washington and Moscow have again
escalated.

''Deutschland 83'' debuted in the United States in June and will be shown in
Germany later this month.

''Whenever you are writing about history, you're really writing about the
present as well,'' Ms. Winger said. ''I'm not sure we meant the story as a
warning, exactly, but certainly we wanted to make people think about all these
things. We always imagine history is created by a massive groundswell of
choreography, but at the end of the day an individual has to make decisions.''

The Russians were making their decisions, in part, by feeding 40,000 variables
into a computer to predict the likelihood of nuclear attack.

''Soviet intelligence clearly had tipoffs'' to the Able Archer exercise, the
advisory board's report said, and some scenarios suggested a nuclear first
strike.

''It is an especially grave error to assume that since we know the U.S. is not
going to start World War III,'' the board warned, ''the next leaders of the
Kremlin will also believe that -- and act on that belief.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/europe/nato-war-games-unwittingly-put-so
viets-and-us-on-hair-trigger-in-83-analysis-suggests.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS
(89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%);
WRITERS (76%); HISTORY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%);
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); MISSILE
DEFENSE SYSTEMS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL
RESEARCH (55%); PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD (54%)

CITY: HAMBURG, GERMANY (78%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE
(93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Soccer Resolves Lawsuit by Targeting Head Injuries

BYLINE: By BEN STRAUSS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 590 words


The United States Soccer Federation unveiled a series of safety initiatives
Monday aimed at addressing head injuries in the sport, including a policy that
sets strict limits on youth players heading the ball. The new guidelines, which
resolve a proposed class-action lawsuit filed against U.S. Soccer and others
last year, will prohibit players age 10 and younger from heading the ball and
will reduce headers in practice for those from age 11 to 13.

The regulations will be mandatory for U.S. Soccer youth national teams and
academies, including Major League Soccer youth club teams, but the rules will be
only recommendations for other soccer associations and development programs that
are not under U.S. Soccer control.

''What we're establishing is creating parameters and guidelines with regards to
the amount of exposure'' to potential head injuries, George Chiampas, U.S.
Soccer's chief medical officer, said in a conference call with reporters. He
added that the science on concussions and youth soccer was still evolving, and
so would U.S. Soccer's policies.

Among the other changes will be modifications to substitution rules that are
meant to better serve players suspected of having sustained concussions. The
specifics of the new policy proposals on substitutions will be announced in the
next 30 days, according to U.S. Soccer.

Currently, international rules allow for only three substitutions per game at
the senior level, with no arrangement in place for a temporary substitution so a
player with a head injury can be examined properly.

Increasing awareness of head injuries, especially after several high-profile
cases in Europe and during the 2014 World Cup, have led some to press for rules
changes to allow for concussion treatment, but so far there has been little
interest in soccer leadership to alter the rules of the game.

U.S. Soccer's initiative calls for more education for players, parents, coaches
and referees, and for more uniform practices for handling youth concussions, and
its officials said they hoped those efforts could lead to broader acceptance of
the rules about headers by children and the treatment of head injuries.

Monday's announcement resolved a legal case that began in August 2014, when a
group of parents and players filed a class-action lawsuit in United States
District Court in California charging FIFA, U.S. Soccer and the American Youth
Soccer Organization with negligence in treating and monitoring head injuries.
The suit targeted the Laws of the Game, which govern the sport internationally,
as well as several American organizations.

The suit sought no financial damages, only rules changes, as FIFA joined other
sports governing bodies like the N.F.L., the N.H.L. and the N.C.A.A. in facing a
lawsuit over head injuries.

A judge ruled in the summer that the case against FIFA had no standing, but that
an amended complaint could be filed against U.S. Soccer. The announcement of
Monday's initiatives will serve as a resolution in the case, and Steve Berman,
the lawyer who brought the case, agreed not to appeal the dismissal.

''With the development of the youth concussion initiative by U.S. Soccer and its
youth members, we feel we have accomplished our primary goal and, therefore, do
not see any need to continue the pursuit of the litigation,'' Berman said in a
statement.

According to the original filing in the case, nearly 50,000 high school soccer
players sustained concussions in 2010 -- more players than in baseball,
basketball, softball and wrestling combined.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/soccer/us-soccer-resolving-lawsuit-will
-limit-headers-for-youth-players.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (94%); HEAD INJURIES (91%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (91%); SPORTS
INJURIES (91%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CONCUSSIONS
(90%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); BRAIN INJURIES (89%); YOUTH SPORTS (89%); SPORTS &
RECREATION (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SPORTS
(89%); CHILDREN (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
SPORTS (78%); SPORTS OFFICIATING (78%); COACHES & TRAINERS (78%); DAMAGES (78%);
PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (78%); FIFA WORLD CUP (78%); SOCCER
TOURNAMENTS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); NEGLIGENCE (77%); DECISIONS &
RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); JUDGES (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%);
CONFERENCE CALLS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (91%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Why Your Children Will Live Longer Than You Expect

BYLINE: By JOSH BARRO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BY THE NUMBERS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 938 words


According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, life expectancy at
birth in the United States was 78.8 years in 2013 -- 76.4 years for men, 81.2
years for women. But I have good news. Those statistics don't mean what you
probably think they mean.

In fact, an American child born in 2013 will most likely live six or more years
longer than those averages: boys into their early 80s, girls into their late
80s.

Any life expectancy calculation is based on a series of probabilities: If you're
currently 21, what are your odds of living to 22; if you live to 22, how likely
are you to make it to 23; and so on. In the most commonly cited life expectancy
statistics, which actuaries call period life expectancy, the death rates at each
age are held fixed over time. That is, a baby girl born Jan. 1, 2016, who lives
to see 2076 is assigned a probability of dying in 2076 that equals the
probability of a woman who is currently 60 years old dying next year.

Of course, the assumption that 60-year-olds in 2076 will be no healthier than
60-year-olds today is unlikely to be correct. But actuaries don't use it because
they're idiots; they use it because it's useful for comparing current health
conditions across countries. If babies in Country A and Country B are likely to
have about the same life span, but currently old people are sicker in Country A
than in Country B, this method will produce a lower reported life expectancy for
Country A. What this life expectancy figure tells you is, that when you average
all the young people and the old people, people in Country B will tend to live
longer.

So this statistic is useful for measuring the health of a country's inhabitants,
but it's not useful if what you want to know is how long your new child will
live. For that, you need to look at cohort life expectancy, a statistic that
adjusts for the fact that death rates tend to decline over time as health and
safety improve. According to the Social Security Administration, that's 83.1
years for boys born in the United States in 2015, and 86.8 years for girls.

But wait, I have more good news: Those estimates are probably not optimistic
enough. The Technical Panel on Assumptions and Methods established by the Social
Security Advisory Board, an independent government agency that advises Social
Security's trustees on matters including actuarial assumptions, says Social
Security is systematically underestimating future declines in mortality rates,
and therefore underestimating the likely life spans of young Americans.
(Demographic estimates, of course, are necessary to project future revenues and
expenses for the program.)

In the long run, the Social Security Administration assumes the ''mortality
improvement rate'' will be 0.71 percent -- that is, the odds of dying at a given
age will fall, on average, that much each year. Remember, that's a rate of
relative improvement, and at most ages the odds of dying are low, so the numbers
won't move around very much. If a person your age had a 1 percent chance of
dying in a given year, the S.S.A.'s assumption of 0.71 percent annual mortality
improvement would imply a 0.9921 percent chance of death the following year for
people a year younger than you -- just a little bit safer.

The technical panel thinks 0.71 percent isn't high enough, and that Social
Security should assume an improvement rate of 1 percent a year, which better
reflects past improvements in health. Over time, that small difference would
compound into a meaningful increase in life expectancy. By 2090, this change in
assumptions would add two and a half years to life expectancy, relative to the
assumptions currently used by Social Security.

That is, there is a very good chance today's newborn boys will live to be about
85, and newborn girls will approach 90, on average.

Of course, you could just say the Social Security Administration is being
conservative in forecasting an unknowable future -- further improvements in life
expectancy are likely to depend on unknown and unforeseen improvements in
medical technology. But one quirk of Social Security is that a piece of obvious
good news (People will live longer than we thought!) is bad news from the narrow
perspective of paying for retirement benefits (The government will have to pay
benefits longer!).

A higher life expectancy estimate is optimistic for the human condition, but
pessimistic for the Social Security Trust Fund. So perhaps it's not surprising
the trustees of Social Security have resisted prior recommendations to raise
life expectancy assumptions.

A succession of six technical panels established by the Social Security Advisory
Board -- in 1995, 1999, 2003, 2007, 2011 and this year -- have argued that
Social Security was assuming unrealistic mortality rate improvements.
Eventually, the Congressional Budget Office started tweaking Social Security's
assumptions to adjust life expectancy upward.

''We felt at C.B.O. a few years ago that we just couldn't stick with the S.S.A.
projections anymore, given where the experts seemed to be,'' said Doug
Elmendorf, who until recently served as director of the office.

That's a modest piece of bad news for the federal budget -- lower mortality
rates may worsen the shortfall in Social Security by 11 percent over the next 75
years, with nearly all of the increased deficit emerging after 2040. But the
need to close that gap should be a small price to pay for the upside of living a
bit longer.

The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and
everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Sign up for our newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/upshot/your-kids-will-live-longer-than-you-tho
ught.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDWARD CARVALHO-MONAGHAN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(90%); WOMEN (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES
(89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); US SOCIAL
SECURITY (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (84%); DISEASES &
DISORDERS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES &
PROJECTIONS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (84%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

What On TV Tuesday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 472 words


A cup of joe or a glass of blaufränkisch? The choice is yours, thirsty viewers,
as two competitions -- one for baristas, the other for sommeliers -- showcase
the commitment and quirks of those who aspire to become masters of their
domains. Or sit back with your beverage of choice while John Stamos and Dave
Coulier evoke their ''Full House'' days on ''Grandfathered,'' and Ric Burns pays
tribute to disabled veterans throughout American history.

BARISTA (2015) on iTunes. A bacon-fat mocha, anyone? The director Rock
Baijnauth, who has described this documentary as ''Sideways'' meets ''Best in
Show,'' follows five coffee aficionados as they grind, brew, froth, adorn and
fret over the signature drinks that could lead to one of them being crowned the
country's best barista. (Image: Charles Babinski, one of the competitors)

What's On TV Tuesday

THE MUPPETS 8 p.m. E.S.T. on ABC. A stressed-out Kermit runs into a tightly
wound Jason Bateman at a yoga retreat. In ''Fresh Off the Boat,'' at 8:30, Eddie
plans his 12th  birthday party and doesn't invite his family.

GRANDFATHERED 8 p.m. on Fox. Jimmy wants his own Amal Clooney, so Sara sets him
up with a colleague. Gerald and Vanessa decide to become friends with benefits.
And Dave Coulier of ''Full House'' does a guest turn. In ''The Grinder,'' at
8:30, Ethan decides to step out of the shadows and audition for the school play
instead of following in Stewart's footsteps by joining the tech crew. And in
''Scream Queens,'' at 9, Grace and Chanel discover that they have more in common
than they thought. And Dean Munsch goes psycho. (Image: From left, Lea Michele,
Billie Lourd, Abigail Breslin, Emma Roberts and Niecy Nash)

IWO JIMA: FROM COMBAT TO COMRADES 8 p.m. on PBS. Four veterans -- three of them
American and one Japanese -- return to this World War II battlefield in a
ceremony of peace and remembrance. Ryan Phillippe narrates. In ''Debt of Honor:
Disabled Veterans in American History,'' at 10, Ric Burns examines the ways we
have regarded those wounded in battle, from the Revolutionary War to the present
day. (Image: Marines in 1945)

MANHATTAN 10 p.m. on WGN. A reporter questions Frank, Crosley and Fritz about
the events of the last six months.

UNCORKED 10 p.m. on Esquire. Swish, spit, repeat: Master sommeliers, of which
there are only 230 worldwide, must ace wine theory, cater to persnickety palates
and, from taste alone, determine the year, grape variety and region of a wine,
down exactly to where the fruit was grown. Six New Yorkers try to pass the test.

DONNY! 10:30 p.m. on USA. On his daytime talk show, Donny Deutsch (or a
fictional single-dad-surrounded-by-women version of himself) seems to have all
the answers. But off camera, he struggles just like everyone else. His first
fumble: sexting a picture that goes viral. (Image: Mr. Deutsch)




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/arts/television/what-to-watch-now.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAMUEL GOLDWYN FILMS
PATTI PERRET/FOX
JOE ROSENTHAL/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 PATRICK HARBRON/USA NETWORK)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERANS (89%); WORLD WAR II (89%); HISTORY (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS
(75%); YOGA (52%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

No Charges Against Officers Who Shot Boy, 14, in Trenton Chase

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 245 words


TRENTON -- Two law-enforcement officers who shot a 14-year-old boy they said
pointed a gun at them during a foot chase three months ago will not face
criminal charges, a grand jury decided on Monday.

The officers said that after a ShotSpotter system reported shots fired in a
neighborhood here on Aug. 7, they arrived and ordered the boy, another juvenile
and a man to stop. After the 14-year-old boy ran off, the officers chased him,
and both said he turned around and pointed a gun at them before they fired a
combined 15 shots, the state attorney general's office said.

The boy was shot three times in the legs and buttocks and was later charged as a
juvenile with aggravated assault and gun crimes.

The other teenager told investigators that the three had had a dispute with a
group of young men who fired three shots at them. He told investigators that he
saw the 14-year-old run and then throw something toward the street before the
police opened fire. A .22-caliber handgun was not found until the next day, when
an emergency vehicle was moved.

An associate of the boys told investigators that the 14-year-old retrieved a
community gun, available to anyone who wanted to use it, before the shooting,
the attorney general's office said.

That witness said that the teenager told him he had fired two or three shots
during a dispute in a park before the gun jammed. Investigators said the gun
that was found was jammed and was defaced, its serial numbers removed.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/nyregion/no-charges-against-officers-who-shot-
boy-14-in-trenton-chase.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); VIOLENT
CRIME (78%); FIREARMS (78%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); GRAND
JURY (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); EMERGENCY
VEHICLES (73%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Study Set on Tolls for New Tappan Zee Bridge

BYLINE: By EMMA G. FITZSIMMONS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 232 words


The New York State Thruway Authority announced on Monday that a new task force
would examine whether to raise tolls for the crossing that is being built to
replace the Tappan Zee Bridge.

The authority's executive director, Robert L. Megna, said that tolls on the
Tappan Zee would not increase in 2016, but that the seven-member panel would
issue toll recommendations for the new bridge by the middle of next year.

''The New NY Bridge project has made tremendous progress, which anyone who
drives over the Tappan Zee can see firsthand, and we will continue to work to
find ways to keep tolls as low as possible for commuters,'' said Mr. Megna, who
is stepping down from his post in January to become a senior vice president at
Stony Brook University.

The Tappan Zee Bridge, which carries the Thruway and connects Rockland and
Westchester Counties, has a $5 toll, compared with the $14 toll on the George
Washington Bridge from New Jersey to New York. Experts have long predicted that
the construction of the $3.9 billion replacement bridge would force the state to
raise tolls, but by how much is unclear.

On Monday, Mr. Megna said that the new bridge was on track to fully open in 2018
as planned. Officials had expected to open the northern part of the double-span
bridge first by December 2016, but that has been pushed back until at least
spring 2017 because of logistical concerns, he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/nyregion/panel-to-examine-tolls-for-new-tappan
-zee-bridge.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMMUTING (75%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Guilty Zoo Tiger and Then, Girl Scouts

BYLINE: By ALEXIS SOLOSKI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 330 words


Jessica Almasy's ''tiger tiger (on the nature of violence)'' at Dixon Place
burns loudly and hotly, though not especially brightly. Based glancingly on a
Christmas Day mauling at the San Francisco Zoo in 2007 that left a teenager
dead, at first it seems to be about the need to assign meaning to catastrophe.
Then it doesn't seem to be about much of anything at all.

I'd wanted to hear Ms. Almasy's writerly voice after having watched her acting
with such pleasure, in plays like Bess Wohl's ''Small Mouth Sounds'' and Toshiki
Okada's ''Enjoy.'' Onstage, she can seem wholly comfortable in her own skin or
riotously itchy in it, as the role demands.

I'm not sure if her gifts as a writer are less confident or if she needs a
director other than herself to organize her energy and impulse. It's possible
that there's a reasonably good play somewhere in ''tiger tiger.'' Right now it
is difficult to tell.

The first 15 or 20 minutes are messy, sure, but inviting in a wild kind of way.
After an attempt to interview the guilty tiger (Brendan Titley in a pink shorty
robe), the action moves backward in time to a confrontation between three
soda-chugging, trigger-happy zoo security employees and the surviving teenagers,
who have the same names as those involved in the real attack. Then Kate Benson
(another playwright and performer) takes over as a CNN anchor with clipped
speech. Then I'm not entirely sure what happened.

Girl Scouts were involved, as was a group-therapy session. At one point a man
dressed as a molar came out and sang a song. There was a brief attempt to link
the tiger attack to the shooting of unarmed black men, but this seemed tentative
and a little embarrassing. Much was chaotic without being inspired, and silly
without being especially fun -- all roar and no bite.

''tiger tiger (on the nature of violence)'' runs through Nov. 21 at Dixon Place,
161A Chrystie Street, Manhattan; 866-811-4111, dixonplace­.org. Running time: 1
hour 25 minutes.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/theater/review-in-tiger-tiger-a-quest-for-answ
ers-in-a-mauling.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: tiger tiger (on the nature of violence): Hannah Heller and
Brendan Titley in this play by Jessica Almasy, at Dixon Place. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
LEE WEXLER/IMAGES FOR INNOVATION)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILD CATS (90%); CHRISTMAS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); THEATER & DRAMA
(75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (75%); THEATER (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); MEN
(73%); INTERVIEWS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Vagabond Teahouse Keeps Pouring Camaraderie, One Free Cup at a Time

BYLINE: By COLIN MOYNIHAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 814 words


Giuseppe Spadafora opened a side door of his white Ford bus, spread a light blue
carpet on a sidewalk near McCarren Park in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, and placed a
small wooden sandwich board next to it reading ''Free Tea.''

Curious passers-by approached. One woman asked about the purpose of the vehicle;
Mr. Spadafora's traveling partner, Ally Rugge, replied that it was ''a mobile
teahouse.'' The woman promised to return after she finished meditating. A second
woman entered, saying to a friend, ''This is what my mother warned me never to
do.''

Inside the bus on Sunday afternoon, the woman, Arielle Swernoff, 23, of
Williamsburg, and her friend, Patrick Rheaume, 33, of Park Slope, accepted the
cups of genmaicha tea offered them and embarked on a discussion that included
references to the small towns of western Massachusetts, where Mr. Rheaume once
worked, and the story of how he became friends with Ms. Swernoff while sharing a
can of beer during a train ride in New Jersey.

The conversation was one of thousands that Mr. Spadafora, 32, has experienced
over roughly the past decade while operating the bus, which he calls Edna Lu. It
is part of a continuing project and social experiment he calls the  Free Tea
Party, meant to encourage people to step outside the channels of mainstream
commerce, he said.

''I'd like to live in a more sharing world,'' he told a visitor. ''So I'm trying
to create that by sharing.''

Mr. Spadafora once worked full time as a video editor, in California, but gave
that up for a more peripatetic life. Since 2006 he has crisscrossed the country
distributing tea, first in a pickup truck and then in the bus, an
18-and-a-half-foot 1989 Econoline with a Thomas body. He bought the vehicle in
San Diego for $2,900 then modified it with mainly salvaged materials to include
a skylight, rooftop solar panels, an engine that runs on used cooking oil
obtained from restaurants, a bed that lowers from the ceiling, a wood-burning
stove and a guttural horn that sounds like a submarine's klaxon.

He said he was influenced by do-it-yourself and ''permaculture'' aesthetics and
by systems of thought that included the so-called slow movement, which asserts
that many people experience stress because the world is moving too quickly.
Above all, he said, he wants to challenge Adam Smith's notions that people are
universally motivated by self-interest and the unyielding pursuit of maximum
economic return.

Since embarking on the free tea project, Mr. Spadafora estimates he has served
close to 30,000 cups, including black, green, white, herbal and oolong.
Typically, he shows up in a city or town with his bus and begins offering tea to
passers-by, hoping to engage in conversation and form relationships -- ''the
highest form of currency'' -- that revolve around trust, collaboration and
reciprocal altruism. He will not accept money for the tea but includes some
currency, along with stickers and herbal tinctures, in a drawer full of items
that visitors are allowed to take with them.

He works every day, Mr. Spadafora said, but rarely does so for pay. He said he
was occasionally hired to do video or building work and earned an average of
$6,000 to $9,000 per year. Much of his food is donated or comes from discarded
supermarket or restaurant provisions, and he does repairs on the bus himself.

Mr. Spadafora and Ms. Rugge, 31, arrived in New York City just over a week ago
after serving tea to hikers in Maine near the starting area for the Appalachian
Trail and to people attending the International Herb Symposium, held at Wheaton
College in Norton, Mass.

In New York, the two served tea in SoHo, on Halloween night outside the Bowery
Ballroom during a performance by the folk band Elephant Revival, and in
Bedford-Stuyvesant, near a similarly themed project known as the Free Store, run
by a group called In Our Hearts. One night in Brooklyn, a graffiti writer used
the side of the white truck as a canvas, but then helped Mr. Spadafora wash the
markings away after he objected.

More than two dozen visitors stopped by the bus over about three hours on
Sunday, to drink tea and chat. Alia El-Kadi, 27, from Park Slope, chatted with a
27-year-old fiddler from Washington Heights who said her name was Ula Zoola. Lee
Maicon, a strategist at an advertising agency, visited along with his daughter,
Anna, 11, who said she liked the bus because there was ''no catch'' beyond the
conversation. Dave Deporis boarded with a guitar and played some songs.

As the afternoon progressed, visitors exchanged views on topics like global
economics and ways to preserve the world's resources. Several also exchanged
email addresses.

Around 3:30, Mr. Spadfora and Ms. Rugge took their sandwich board and carpet
back inside the bus and began washing out teacups. Mr. Deporis, the musician,
thanked them as he departed and said he hoped they would meet again.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/nyregion/a-vagabond-teahouse-pours-camaraderie
-one-free-cup-at-a-time.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Giuseppe Spadafora in his white Ford bus near McCarren Park in
Brooklyn on Sunday. ''I'd like to live in a more sharing world,'' he told a
visitor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); TEA (72%); TRAINS (71%); FULL
TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%)

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Target Keeps Thanksgiving Opening at 6 p.m. on the Holiday

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 268 words


Target doesn't want Americans to miss Thanksgiving dinner -- but with its stores
opening at 6 p.m. that day for a second year running, shoppers may still have to
choose between sales and dessert.

The retailer, based in Minneapolis, said on Monday that it would keep its
Thanksgiving and Black Friday sales hours unchanged from last year, despite
complaints of an unrelenting ''holiday sales creep'' into a family holiday. It
was the first time in years that Target did not move up its holiday opening
times.

Still, Target did announce a 10-day sale across entire departments that will
start four days before Thanksgiving and run through the Black Friday weekend.
And its website will feature Thanksgiving ''doorbusters'' starting early in the
morning that day, Target said.

Tina Tyler, Target's head of stores, said in a call with reporters on Monday
that a 6 p.m. opening time was ''a sweet spot'' that allowed shoppers to take
part in the Thanksgiving tradition and also shop.

Target is among many stores grappling with their holiday sales strategy as
discontent grows among some consumers over earlier-than-ever holiday sales
times, as well as fatigue over a calendar bursting with sales events.

The outdoor gear and sporting goods retailer REI was praised last month when it
announced that it would close its stores, and even its website, on Black Friday.

Ms. Tyler said that she did not think opening on Thanksgiving, or having many
days of sales, would dilute spending on Black Friday, the traditional day of
deals.

''We don't believe we're shifting away,'' she said, but rather, ''we're adding
to.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/target-keeps-thanksgiving-opening-at-
6-pm-on-the-holiday.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (94%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%);
RETAILERS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); SALES
PLAN (79%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (92%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331
VARIETY STORES (92%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

F.D.A. Seeks to Slow the Pour of Sugar

BYLINE: By RONI CARYN RABIN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1229 words


Health experts have been nudging Americans to kick the sugar habit for years,
and now it's official: The Food and Drug Administration is recommending a daily
cap on sugar for the first time.

The goal is for Americans to limit added sugar to no more than 10 percent of
daily calories, according to the proposed guidelines. For someone older than 3,
that means eating no more than 12.5 teaspoons, or 50 grams, of it a day.

That's about the same amount of sugar found in a can of Coke, but for most
people, giving up sugary soft drinks will not be enough to meet the
recommendations. Caloric sweeteners like sugar, honey and high-fructose corn
syrup are found in obvious places like sodas, cookies and candy -- but they are
also lurking in foods with health appeal, like low-fat yogurt, granola and
wholegrain breads, as well as in ketchup, pasta sauce, canned fruit and prepared
soups, salad dressings and marinades.

''There is a lot of hidden sugar in our food supply, and it's not just in
sweets,'' said Dr. Frank Hu, a member of the Dietary Guidelines Advisory
Committee and a professor of nutrition and epidemiology at Harvard.

Currently, nutrition labels on food packaging reveal only the total amount of
sugar in a product. The F.D.A. has said it wants to change the labels to help
consumers distinguish between the amount of naturally occurring sugar and the
amount of added sugar.

''When you see a yogurt with pictures of blueberries and strawberries on the
label -- right now there could be a teeny tiny amount of real fruit in there and
an awful lot of added sugar, or lots of fruit and dairy and little added sugar,
and the consumer cannot distinguish between the two,'' said Susan Mayne, the
director of the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition at the F.D.A.

Critics from the food industry have balked at the sugar cap and the new label
requirements, saying the new labels will only confuse shoppers. A study
published in The Journal of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics in June found
that people overestimated the amount of sugar in products that listed ''added
sugars,'' and were less likely to buy them.

''Metabolically speaking, our bodies don't differentiate between added and
natural sugars,'' said Kris Sollid, a dietitian who is one of the study's
authors and director of nutrients communications for the International Food
Information Council, which receives funding from food and beverage companies
including Coca-Cola and PepsiCo.

If people are watching their weight, he said, ''it's more important to look at
total calories.''

Dietitians agree that knowing total calories is important, but note that added
sugars represent empty calories, devoid of nutrients. While milk and fruit
contain natural sugars, they are nutrient-dense foods that provide calcium,
protein, vitamins or dietary fiber.

The World Health Organization endorses a 10 percent cap on sugars, excluding
those in fresh fruits, vegetables and milk, and urges people to aim even lower,
limiting sugars to 5 percent of caloric intake to derive greater health
benefits.

The American Heart Association also recommends stricter sugar limits, saying
women should consume only about 100 calories a day in added sugars -- about six
teaspoons -- and men no more than 150 calories, or nine teaspoons. The F.D.A. is
recommending that children 1 to 3 should not consume more than 25 grams of sugar
a day.

Nearly half of the added sugar consumed in the United States comes from
sweetened drinks, much of it in soft drinks, but also in sweetened tea and
coffee, fruit drinks and sports drinks, according to analyses from the National
Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys.

The 10 percent cap was derived from modeling different kinds of healthy diet
patterns -- American, Mediterranean and vegetarian -- and determining how many
discretionary calories are left over for sugar after an individual ge the
nutrients he or she needs, said Dr. Susan Krebs-Smith,, the chief of the risk
factors assessment branch at the National Cancer Institute.

''When all that's taken into consideration, there's a very small allowance for
discretionary calories, or what some people call 'empty calories,''' Dr.
Krebs-Smith said.

She compared the new sugar recommendations to living on a budget. ''If we were
advising the public on how to spend their money,'' she said, ''we wouldn't have
trouble telling them to focus on spending on essentials like food, shelter and
clothing.''

Sugar makes up about 13.5 percent of Americans' caloric intake, so public health
experts think the goal of 10 percent is attainable. But that's an average
figure: Younger people, blacks and the poor tend to consume higher amounts of
sugar and would need to make deeper cuts to reach the goal.

Children and teenagers over all get 16 percent of their calories from sugar, a
figure that drops to 14 percent of calories for adults aged 20 to 39, with
further drops as people age, according to data from the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.

While dietary guidelines have been encouraging people to cut back on sugar for
decades, the focus has largely been on preventing weight gain. But new research
suggests a high-sugar diet may have metabolic effects, separate from weight
gain, that promote chronic disease by causing inflammation, insulin resistance
and hypertension.

Most recently, sugar in the diet has also been implicated in cardiovascular
disease deaths: A large study led by Dr. Hu reported last year that adults who
had the highest intake of sugar -- consuming 25 percent of daily calories as
sugar -- were nearly three times more likely to die of heart disease over a
14-year period, compared with those whose sugar intake was less than 10 percent
of calories.

Several recent randomized clinical trials have shown that getting children to
cut back on sugar-sweetened beverages alone can slow weight gain and fat
accumulation. Many experts are convinced that the brain doesn't register liquid
calories the same way it registers calories in food. ''Even after consuming 200
or 300 calories from soda,'' Dr. Hu said, ''you don't feel satisfied, or full.''

But even enthusiastic supporters of the new rules worry that a cap on sugar
could boomerang. Sugar is often used to make reduced-fat dairy and high-fiber
grains more palatable, so what would happen if people eliminated sugar from
their diet?

In the 1970s, doctors and nutrition experts began advocating low-fat diets for
heart health, leading to a proliferation of low-fat and fat-free products that
were high in sugar. When low-carb diets became a fad, food makers responded with
low-carb pastas and low-carb brownies that were loaded with fat and calories.

''We call this the unanticipated consequences,'' said Alice H. Lichtenstein, a
professor of nutrition science at Tufts University who serves on the dietary
guidelines committee. ''Every time we focus on just one component of the diet,
we get in these crazy situations.''

Related:

Cutting Sugar Improves Children's Health in Just 10 Days

What Eating 40 Teaspoons of Sugar a Day Can Do to You

Nutrition Panel Calls for Less Sugar and Eases Cholesterol and Fat Restrictions

For more fitness, food and wellness news, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or
sign up for our newsletter.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/11/09/placing-a-cap-on-americans-consumption-
of-added-sugar/

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sugar can be hidden in foods like, clockwise from top left,
granola, yogurt, pasta sauce and canned fruit. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUTRITION (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FOOD &
BEVERAGE (89%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (89%); FOOD LABELING (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS
(88%); SUGAR SUBSTITUTES (79%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (78%); FOOD &
BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); SOFT DRINKS (76%); BAKED GOODS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS
(76%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (75%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); MILK (73%); FOOD
PACKAGING (73%); FOOD SAFETY (73%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (73%); DIETING (73%);
PRODUCT LABELING (70%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (66%); WRITERS (60%)

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (50%); COCA-COLA CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (50%); KO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK
FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS
(50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Secrets Set in Stone

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1684 words


AMESBURY, England -- About 6,300 years ago, a tree here toppled over.

For the ancients in this part of southern England, it created a prime real
estate opportunity -- next to a spring and near attractive hunting grounds.

According to David Jacques, an archaeologist at the University of Buckingham,
mud was pressed into the pulled-up roots, turning them into a wall. Nearby, a
post was inserted into a hole, and that may have held up a roof of reeds or
animal skin.

It was, he said, a house, one of the earliest in England.

Last month, in the latest excavation at a site known as Blick Mead, Mr. Jacques
and his team dug a trench 40 feet long, 23 feet wide and 5 feet deep, examining
this structure and its surroundings. They found a hearth with chunks of
heat-cracked flint, pieces of bone, flakes of flint used for arrowheads and
cutting tools, and ocher pods that may have been used as a pigment.

''There's noise here,'' Mr. Jacques said, imagining the goings-on in 4300 B.C.
''There's people here doing stuff. Just like us. Same kids and worries.''

About a mile away is Stonehenge.

For Mr. Jacques, the house is part of the story of Stonehenge, even though the
occupants of the Blick Mead home never saw that assemblage of massive stones.
The beginnings of Stonehenge were more than a millennium in the future.

But Blick Mead, he said, helps fill in the sweep of hunter-gatherers who became
farmers and then built Stonehenge and other prehistoric monuments dotting the
English countryside.

''This is the first unknown chapter of Stonehenge,'' Mr. Jacques said.

Stonehenge has captivated generation after generation. Archaeologists have over
the years cataloged the rocks, divined meaning from their placement -- lined up
for midsummer sunrise and midwinter sunset -- and studied animal and human bones
buried there. They have also long known about the other monuments -- burial
chambers, a 130-foot-tall mound of chalk known as Silbury Hill and many other
circular structures. An aerial survey in 1925 revealed circles of timbers, now
called Woodhenge, two miles from Stonehenge.

''The stone monument is iconic,'' said Wolfgang Neubauer, the director of the
Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Archaeological Prospection and Virtual
Archaeology in Vienna. ''But it's only a little part of the whole thing.''

Discoveries in the last decade, some via modern technologies like
ground-penetrating radar, have revealed more about the people for whom the giant
monuments held great meaning.

A Parade of Monuments

The story of Britain starts at the end of the last ice age. In the cold, Britain
emptied of people. With so much ocean water frozen in glaciers, sea level was
lower, and Britain was connected to the rest of Europe. As the world warmed,
they walked back until rising waters severed the land bridge.

Around 3800 B.C. the first large monuments appeared -- rectangular mounds known
as long barrows that served as burial chambers.

Around 3500 B.C., a two-mile-long, 100-yard-wide ditch was dug close to the
Stonehenge site, what is known as the Stonehenge Cursus. (Cursus is Latin for
racetrack; the discoverer in the 18th century thought it was a Roman racetrack.)

The first stage of Stonehenge itself, a circular foundation ditch, was carved
around 2900 B.C., and rings of timbers were erected.

About 400 years later came a heyday of henges. (The defining characteristic of a
henge is not the rocks or timbers sticking upward, but a circular ditch
surrounded by a raised bank. In this sense, Stonehenge today is not a true
henge; its raised bank is inside the ditch.)

Twenty miles north of Stonehenge is Avebury, with three stone circles, the
outermost more than 1,000 feet in diameter, so large that the town of Avebury
has spread into the henge; at the center is a pub, the Red Lion, founded four
centuries ago.

Closer to Stonehenge is Durrington Walls, a circular earthen structure about
1,600 feet in diameter.

Michael Parker Pearson of University College London has excavated houses at
Durrington Walls and along the nearby River Avon, and he has proposed this is
where the builders lived for the grandest stage of Stonehenge's construction,
which started around 2600 B.C. The giant stones, weighing some 40 tons, were
moved and carved. He believes smaller bluestones, about two tons each, had been
taken to Stonehenge during the initial construction from the Preseli mountains
in Wales and now more, larger ones were hauled over.

Because early Britons had no written language, the simplest question -- Why was
it built? -- has yet to be conclusively answered.

In Dr. Parker Pearson's view, Durrington Walls was the land of the living,
symbolized by the timbers of Woodhenge, while Stonehenge was the land of the
dead. He believes early Britons gathered at Durrington Walls to feast and then
proceeded to Stonehenge to honor their ancestors.

Last month in the journal Antiquity, Dr. Parker Pearson and his colleagues
described fatty acid residues they identified on the inside of cooking pots.

''We've got the menu,'' he said: beef and pork, boiled and grilled, with a
smattering of apples, berries and hazelnuts. ''They're basically eating a very
meat-heavy diet.''

People came from near and far for the festivities, Dr. Parker Pearson said. He
said analysis of cattle teeth showed different isotopes of the element
strontium, which vary based on the local minerals in the water, indicating the
animals had been raised elsewhere and then taken to Durrington Walls.

Timothy Darvill of Bournemouth University, who conducted a small excavation at
Stonehenge in 2008, has a different idea about the monument's significance,
pointing to the bluestones, which he said were not added to the monument until
the second phase, around 2500 B.C., and in legend posess healing powers. ''Those
stones are pretty special,'' Dr. Darvill said. ''Perhaps their significance
wasn't fully understood.''

He said that Stonehenge originally may have been ''the land of the dead,'' as
Dr. Parker Pearson asserts. But Stonehenge later became more like a prehistoric
Lourdes, where people came seeking healing, Dr. Darvill said. ''We see
Stonehenge more as a place for the living,'' he said.

Peering Into the Past

Much more may lie beneath the surface.

''We presume the bits we knew about are the important ones,'' said Vincent
Gaffney of the University of Bradford. ''What we need to do is to find out
really what is out there.''

The idea of using ground-penetrating radar and magnetometers to peer into the
ground without digging goes back decades. In recent years, the equipment --
particularly the computers to analyze the data -- has become cheap enough and
fast enough to be widely used in archaeology.

Dr. Neubauer collaborated with Dr. Gaffney to survey eight square miles around
Stonehenge and Durrington Walls. ''It's been like an army moving across it,''
Dr. Gaffney said.

In September, they announced a surprising claim: Buried in the banks of
Durrington Walls are about 90 standing stones, some up to 15 feet tall. Dr.
Gaffney said there may originally have been 200, more than twice as many as at
Stonehenge. ''That tells you the scale of this thing,'' he said.

If true, that would jumble Dr. Parker Pearson's differentiation of Durrington
Walls as the land of the living from Stonehenge, the land of the dead. But he is
skeptical of the findings, which have not been published in a peer-reviewed
journal.

He said that a decade ago, he excavated some of those locations and found post
holes that had been capped with cemented chalk. The radar reflections had
bounced off the chalk blocks, he said.

''The smart money is that the stones are not actually stones,'' Dr. Parker
Pearson said. He said he and Dr. Gaffney had discussed their differing
interpretations. ''We'll dig a hole next year to resolve the issue once and for
all,'' he said.

A Place of Mystery

Still unknown is how the Stonehenge area became a revered site. The most
intriguing evidence is right next to Stonehenge itself -- three big post holes
that held tall totemlike timber poles. Charcoal and bones in the pits have been
dated between 8000 and 7000 B.C.

''It raises the issue whether you have a special place already recognized by a
people a long, long time before Stonehenge,'' Dr. Parker Pearson said. ''That is
a question one day we'll be able to resolve.''

The post holes are far older than anything in the area except the Blick Mead
site and one other newly dated post hole.

Mr. Jacques said that animal bones there -- mostly aurochs, the big ancestors of
modern cattle, but also red deer and boars -- date to 7500 B.C., overlapping the
Stonehenge post holes. The connection between the two is speculative, but this
might be where the builders of the Stonehenge totems lived.

The spring there is full of flint tools and discarded bones. Mr. Jacques paints
a picture of Blick Mead as perhaps a precursor of the Durrington Walls
celebrations.

Fed from underground, the spring never freezes, and it may have seemed magical
in another way, too.

A few years ago, a volunteer -- Mr. Jacques's mother -- pulled an
interesting-looking rock out of the spring and put it in her pocket. A few hours
later, it had turned hot pink -- a reaction of algae on the rock to oxygen in
the air.

The algae grows only in certain partly shadowed conditions, and those conditions
may not have changed much in 9,500 years. ''We're starting to realize this is a
special place where special things are going on,'' Mr. Jacques said.

He hopes to expand the digs to look for not just a house but a village.

''These people are the first Britons,'' Mr. Jacques said. ''We've found the
cradle to Stonehenge.''

After the end of the grand construction phase of Stonehenge, around 2400 B.C.,
the monument was altered, but the era of megamonument building was over.

''That's basically when their world changed,'' Dr. Parker Pearson said. New
people crossed the channel from Europe, bringing bronze and metalmaking to the
stone age culture. ''It's a very interesting shift,'' he said. ''In a way,
Stonehenge is a swan song.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/science/stonehenge-begins-to-yield-its-secrets
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ADAM STANDFORD, AERIAL-CAM) (D1)
Clockwise from top: Concrete posts mark where wooden stakes stood at Woodhenge
soil at a dig being sorted
a flint turned magenta that might have drawn people to the area
David Jacques, who led a recent dig a mile from Stonehenge
items from a dig at Amesbury. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (D4) MAP: A Crowded Neighborhood (Sources: Stonehenge Landscape Project
Stonehenge Riverside Project
 English Heritage) (MAP FROM INFOTERRA AND BLUESKY VIA GOOGLE EARTH AND
STONEHENGE HIDDEN LANDSCAPE PROJECT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); HUMANITIES &
SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (61%); RADAR
SYSTEMS (60%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Outcry Over Holiday Starbucks Cups

BYLINE: By SYDNEY EMBER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 490 words


For some reason, Starbucks keeps trying to coax its customers to share a bit
more over their coffee cups.

And this year, its annual red holiday cup became fodder for a little less
charitable sharing. Devoid of the seasonal snowflakes, ornaments and reindeer of
yore, this year's plain red cup stirred a bit of noise on social media.

Perhaps it was part of the company's intent to generate a little buzz, however
negative and extreme some of the instant reviews sounded.

''Starbucks REMOVED CHRISTMAS from their cups because they hate Jesus,'' Joshua
Feuerstein, who described himself as an evangelist, Internet and social media
personality, wrote on his Facebook page on Thursday.

His post was cited repeatedly on all sides of the cup issue including by those
who found his objections overly frothy.

One person posted on Twitter that ''maybe if the Starbucks Xmas folks want to
further their cause they could take their latte money & donate it to a soup
kitchen or something.''

Still, the protests were so loud that Starbucks sought on Sunday to clarify its
decision to remove the holiday symbols. In a statement on its website, the
company said it took its cue from ''customers who have been doodling designs on
cups for years.''

''This year's design is another way Starbucks is inviting customers to create
their own stories with a red cup that mimics a blank canvas,'' the company said.

The cups, however, are more Mark Rothko painting than empty page: Starbucks said
they featured ''a two-toned ombré design, with a bright poppy color on top that
shades into a darker cranberry below.''

Jeffrey Fields, the vice president for design and content at Starbucks, said in
a statement that the company ''wanted to usher in the holidays with a purity of
design that welcomes all of our stories.''

''Starbucks has become a place of sanctuary during the holidays,'' he added.
''We're embracing the simplicity and the quietness of it.''

This is not the first time Starbucks has drawn attention with its cups. In
March, the coffee company introduced an initiative meant to stimulate
conversations about race relations that instead drew intense criticism.

Of course, any time a company changes its packaging, it is bound to attract some
grumblings. When Tropicana, for instance, changed the design on cartons for its
Pure Premium orange juice in 2009, consumers were outraged. The brand quickly
backpedaled, removing the new symbol -- a glass of orange juice -- and replacing
it with the longtime orange-with-a-straw logo.

And for those longing for the seasonal flavors, Starbucks hasn't forgone the
tradition of peppermint- and cinnamon-infused lattes.

''They clearly believe in the holidays -- they have special blends, they have
gingerbread,'' said Jim Stengel, a business consultant and former chief
marketing officer at Procter & Gamble.

''I don't think they're playing any games,'' he added. ''It's clearly still a
holiday cup.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/starbuckss-red-holiday-cups-inspire-o
utcry-online.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Red cups, embellished with the Starbucks mermaid but no holly,
snowflakes or other seasonal images, caused a stir online.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%);
HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); COFFEE & TEA
(78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (72%); RELIGION (70%); PRODUCT PACKAGING
(70%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (68%); RACE & RACISM (50%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%); FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING
PLACES (93%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH
PORTALS (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sports Briefing | Pro Basketball; Timberwolves Rally

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 180 words


Andrew Wiggins tied a career high with 33 points for the Minnesota Timberwolves,
who blew a 34-point lead but bounced back to win, 117-107, in Atlanta, ending
the Hawks' seven-game winning streak.

A Paul Millsap shot with 3 minutes 26 seconds left gave Atlanta its first lead
at 107-106. But Wiggins scored the next 7 points to prevent what would have been
one of the biggest collapses in N.B.A. history.

â-  Nikola Mirotic had 20 points and 10 rebounds to lead the visiting Chicago
Bulls past the Philadelphia 76ers, 111-88. Joakim Noah had been listed as a
starter instead of Mirotic, but he ended up sitting out with a sore knee.

Philadelphia (0-7) has lost 17 straight, dating to March 27 -- the
fourth-longest skid in team history. Three of those lengthy losing streaks have
come since the start of the 2013-14 season.  (AP)

â-  Paul George made a pivotal go-ahead basket late and finished with 27 points
to lead the Indiana Pacers to a 97-84 home victory over the Orlando Magic.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/basketball/timberwolves-rally-for-win.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%)

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES (93%); ATLANTA HAWKS (84%); NATIONAL
BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (57%); CHICAGO BULLS (56%); PHILADELPHIA 76ERS (56%);
INDIANA PACERS (54%); ORLANDO MAGIC (53%)

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (73%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA
(69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%)

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (73%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%);
ILLINOIS, USA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sports Briefing | College Sports; Illinois Pushes Out A.D.

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 361 words


Illinois fired Athletic Director Mike Thomas, saying that he had done nothing
wrong but that a change was needed with the department in crisis after football
and women's basketball players said they had been mistreated by their coaches.
Thomas will be paid $2.5 million to buy out the remainder of his contract.

The university also released the final reports, more than 1,200 pages in all,
stemming from investigations into the allegations. The football report found
that Coach Tim Beckman, who was fired in August, had pressured players to play
while hurt. The women's basketball inquiry found no evidence to back up
allegations from former players that, among other things, they had been
pressured to play while hurt.

â-  Five women joined a lawsuit filed against the escort Katina Powell, saying
that in her book, she falsely alleged that they had participated in prostitution
at the University of Louisville. The lawsuit was filed by a student who accused
Powell of damaging the university's reputation in her book, ''Breaking Cardinal
Rules: Basketball and the Escort Queen,'' in which she alleged that a staff
member with the men's basketball team had hired her and other dancers to strip
for and have sex with recruits and players.  (AP)

â-  Ohio State Coach Urban Meyer announced that J. T. Barrett, back from a
one-game suspension, would start at quarterback. On Saturday, Cardale Jones
started and led the team to a win over Minnesota.  (AP)

â-  The fourth-year junior receiver Micheal Summers, who started for much of the
past three seasons, quit Georgia Tech's team. Asked if Summers gave him a
reason, Coach Paul Johnson said only that ''he didn't want to play anymore.''
(AP)

â-  Utah Coach Kyle Whittingham said the redshirt freshman Chase Hansen would
miss the rest of the year after he injured his leg during the final play of a
win over Washington on Saturday. Hansen, who was making his first start at
safety and led the 10th-ranked Utes with 11 tackles, is expected to be ready for
2016. He has been expected to be the starting quarterback next season.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/illinois-pushes-out-its-ad.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR
ACTIVITIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS
(78%); SPORTS INJURIES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%);
LITIGATION (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (71%);
PROSTITUTION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE (56%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sports Briefing | Soccer; German Official Quits

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 129 words


Wolfgang Niersbach, the president of the German soccer federation, resigned on
Monday amid scrutiny over a payment to FIFA, saying that he was taking
''political responsibility'' but that he had not done anything wrong and
stressing that his resignation was a personal decision.

The payment, in connection with the 2006 World Cup in Germany, has led to a
tax-evasion inquiry involving Niersbach and two other former top-ranking
federation officials. Niersbach, 64, who has been the president of the
federation, known as the D.F.B., since 2012, is also a member of the executive
committees of FIFA and UEFA. He had been seen as a possible successor to Michel
Platini as UEFA's president.

â-  The Spanish club Real Sociedad fired Coach David Moyes, a year after he was
hired.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/soccer/german-official-quits.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%);
SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); TAX FRAUD (72%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); UNION OF
EUROPEAN FOOTBALL ASSOCIATIONS (82%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sports Briefing | Golf; First-Time Tour Winner

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 60 words


Peter Malnati shot a five-under-par 67 to win a rain-soaked Sanderson Farms
Championship in Jackson, Miss., beating William McGirt and David Toms by one
shot for his first PGA Tour win. Malnati, who finished at 18 under, closed with
five birdies over his last 12 holes.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/golf/first-time-tour-winner.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%)

COMPANY: SANDERSON FARMS INC (58%)

TICKER: SAFM (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (58%); NAICS115210 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES
FOR ANIMAL PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS112320 BROILERS & OTHER MEAT TYPE CHICKEN
PRODUCTION (58%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (58%); SIC0751
LIVESTOCK SERVICES, EXCEPT VETERINARY (58%); SIC0251 BROILER, FRYER, & ROASTER
CHICKENS (58%)

CITY: JACKSON, MS, USA (71%)

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Overtreated Patients, Underwhelming Results

BYLINE: By PAULA SPAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; THE NEW OLD AGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1266 words


Over many years, the 77-year-old patient has managed to control his Type 2
diabetes. Thanks in part to daily doses of a drug that reduces blood sugar, his
glucose level is a very low 6.5 percent.

Like a lot of older people, he copes with multiple medical conditions, including
high blood pressure and severe kidney disease. But with four prescription drugs,
plus Tylenol for lower back pain, he's doing reasonably well.

Oh, and he's a hypothetical example, concocted by researchers at the University
of Michigan and the Veterans Affairs Ann Arbor Healthcare System. They sent this
fictional case study to primary-care professionals at Veterans Affairs medical
centers across the country and asked a series of questions about the man's
treatment.

The researchers believed their nearly 600 respondents -- mostly physicians, but
also nurse practitioners and physician assistants -- would recognize that such a
patient risked developing dangerously low blood sugar, called hypoglycemia. But
no. About half these professionals said they wouldn't worry about potential harm
from the man's rigorous treatment regimen.

Evidence is accumulating that older adults with diabetes, hypertension and other
conditions should be treated less aggressively than they commonly are.
''Deintensification,'' the Michigan researchers have named this approach.

As this and another related recent study have shown, not for the first time,
getting that message out to practicing physicians has proved difficult.

''In our health care system, we are all more scared of failing to do something
than of doing too much,'' said Dr. Jeremy Sussman, a primary care physician and
research scientist at the Ann Arbor hospital.

Under current guidelines, most older patients with diabetes don't have to get
their blood sugar to rock bottom; a 7.5 or 8 percent HbA1c (an average measure
of recent blood glucose control) produces the same benefits as very low glucose.

Blood pressure readings, too, should be allowed to rise as patients age -- up to
150 millimeters of mercury for systolic pressure. The previous goal was to keep
it below 140.

There are good reasons to be less vigilant. In older people with diabetes, for
instance, maintaining very low blood sugar -- often called ''tight control'' --
can do more harm than good. ''People can feel fatigued and weak, get cold
sweats, feel like they're going to pass out,'' said Dr. Tanner Caverly, lead
author of the Michigan survey, published in JAMA Internal Medicine. The fainting
and falls that may result can have devastating consequences.

Further, a widely cited study called Accord, published in 2008 in The New
England Journal of Medicine, found that intensive therapy to reduce blood
glucose actually resulted in higher mortality.

Yet a large national study by Dr. Sussman and his colleagues, published last
month in JAMA Internal Medicine, reveals how rarely deintensification occurs
among patients over age 70.

Reviewing Veterans Affairs data on more than 211,000 patients, the researchers
found that fewer than 19 percent of those with very low blood pressure had
scaled back their medications. Only 27 percent of those with very low blood
sugar had done so.

''There's been a huge effort to ensure that fewer people are undertreated,'' Dr.
Sussman said. ''Now, maybe we've crossed the line and too many people are
overtreated.''

Examples of both extremes are easy to find.

Among older adults, substantial proportions still don't take advantage of
vaccines, among the simplest of health protections. A third of those over age 65
didn't get flu shots last season, according to data from the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. More than 40 percent haven't been vaccinated against
pneumonia, and fewer than a quarter have gotten the shingles vaccine.

But older Americans receive too many colonoscopies and too many mammograms. Last
year, a study found that more than half of nursing home residents with advanced
dementia, a terminal disease, were receiving drugs of questionable value; about
a fifth took statins to lower cholesterol.

Overtreatment, however, rarely brings the sort of hand-wringing that
undertreatment does. You might think it would be welcome news that older
diabetics can do well with lower doses of medication, and that in some cases
they might be able to stop taking glucose-lowering drugs altogether.

Tight control takes great effort, and it makes sense for young and middle-aged
people with diabetes. The benefits accrue slowly, over years, so younger
patients are more apt to receive them. The young have stronger bones and better
balance, so they are less likely to be injured in the falls that too-low blood
sugar can cause.

Older, frailer people with lower life expectancy and many additional health
problems face different trade-offs.

''As you get older, the benefits go down and the risks go up,'' said Dr. Sei
Lee, a geriatrician at the University of California, San Francisco, who has
written about the subject for years. ''What was good for you at 55 might be bad
for you at 75.''

As a member of the American Geriatrics Society's Choosing Wisely panel, Dr. Lee
helped draft its recommendation that a 7 to 7.5 percent blood glucose reading is
a reasonable goal for healthy seniors. For those with additional health problems
and life expectancies of less than 10 years, the panel suggested a 7.5 to 8
percent goal, rising to 8 to 9 percent for those with many medical conditions
and few years ahead.

Given all that, it's disappointing that more primary care providers in the new
Veterans Affairs study never thought to tell our fictional 77-year-old that he
could afford to let his blood glucose rise a bit, and maybe eat a cookie once in
a while. But sometimes patients themselves resist, especially if they have been
dutifully monitoring their disease for years.

Dr. Sussman recalled a veteran, about 80, who took pride in the way he'd managed
his illness, testing his blood several times a day, injecting insulin, keeping
his glucose below 7. He had lost weight with age, however, so Dr. Sussman
suggested he stop insulin shots and begin taking the diabetes drug metformin,
which comes in pill form.

The man gave it a try. ''But he and his wife never lost their discomfort with
doing less than they had been,'' Dr. Sussman said. The patient went back to the
injections.

At least his doctor had pointed out the option and explained the likely
benefits. In the new Veterans Affairs study, nearly 30 percent of respondents
said they lacked the time to discuss the risks and benefits. About a quarter
said they feared that reducing the fictional patient's medications could make
them vulnerable to a lawsuit.

More than 40 percent worried that higher blood glucose would violate their
institutions' performance measures, the report cards doctors get -- even though
the Department of Veterans Affairs has never specified a target below 7 percent
for these patients.

Just the contrary: The department last year announced a National Hypoglycemic
Safety Initiative, changing its approach to diabetes management to avoid
intensive treatment when it's not warranted.

Still, older adults who haven't reassessed their diabetes or blood pressure
regimens for years probably should be asking their doctors if they can or should
make changes. The doctors, for now, might not raise the subject themselves.

''It's one thing to find out about something new and exciting and do it,'' Dr.
Sussman reflected. ''It's harder, emotionally, to look at something you've done
for a long time and think, maybe this isn't so good. And stop.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/health/some-older-patients-are-treated-not-wis
ely-but-too-much.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART BRADFORD)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIABETES (91%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%);
PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%);
INTERNAL MEDICINE (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); HYPERTENSION (89%); CASE STUDIES
(78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); EXPERIMENTATION &
RESEARCH (77%); HOSPITALS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); VETERANS HOSPITALS
(75%); ADULTS (72%); PHYSICIANS ASSISTANTS (71%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES
(71%); KIDNEY DISEASE (71%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (71%); WRITERS (70%);
SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Virtual Reality

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 44 words


To watch ''The Displaced,'' a virtual reality film from The New York Times,
download the new NYT VR app. If you have an iPhone, you can find it in the App
Store; if you have an Android device, go to Google Play. The app is free. More
information is at nytimes.com/vr.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE APPLICATIONS (90%); VIRTUAL REALITY (90%); MOBILE DEVICES (87%);
MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (86%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(57%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Vast Swamp Is a Refuge to Families Fleeing War

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1310 words


UNITY STATE, South Sudan -- The swamp is so large it can be seen from space.
During the rainy season, it stretches over an area the size of France, a
forbidding maze of reeds and crocodiles that long warded off even the most
intrepid of explorers searching for the source of the Nile, whose waters flood
these clay plains.

At night, swarms of ferocious mosquitoes seek out flesh. There are also tsetse
and razor flies, and a variety of deadly snakes, not to mention the stifling
humidity.

This vast marshland, known as the Sudd, is also home to something else: tens of
thousands of desperate civilians who have fled South Sudan's civil war, the
subject of a New York Times virtual reality film about children, resilience and
survival.

Geng Keah Deng, 50, was shot and bleeding when he left his village near the city
of Leer this summer and waded into the swamp.

''We would swim until we could swim no more,'' he said. ''We would eat water
lilies, if we ate at all.''

He knew these waters, and he knew the dangers they posed. Yet he also knew that
staying home was not possible.

''The intention of those fighting was not just to go after people with guns, but
to go after civilians,'' Mr. Deng said days after reaching the relative safety
of an island in the swamp that, for the moment, was out of the reach of
soldiers. He joined 80,000 others on this island alone. ''They came to kill, and
they came to look for young girls,'' he said of the fighters who came to his
village.

Mr. Deng has five daughters. He watched as one was carried away by fighters
after he was shot. He does not know what has become of the other four.

''We don't know whether they were killed or whether they were taken as wives,''
he said.

Four years after South Sudan achieved independence from Sudan to become the
world's newest nation, the country has been torn apart.

A power struggle between President Salva Kiir and his vice president, Riek
Machar, quickly turned into a civil war pitting the nation's largest ethnic
groups against one another. The conflict ranks among the most devastating on the
planet, with 4.4 million people facing the threat of starvation and 2.2 million
forced from their homes.

A report released last month by a commission formed by the African Union --
delayed for months out of fear that it would inflame tensions and complicate
efforts to broker a peace -- offered further evidence that atrocities have been
committed by all sides in the conflict.

''While conflict is not a new phenomenon to South Sudan, the majority of those
the commission met with said that they have never seen the scale and nature of
violations witnessed during this conflict,'' the report says. ''What makes it so
much worse for them is the targeting of civilians, which they claim was never a
central part of previous conflict.''

Investigators found evidence of rape used as a weapon of war, the recruitment of
child soldiers and a level of cruelty that will make stitching this country back
together a daunting task.

''I have seen people being forced to eat other humans,'' one person in a United
Nations camp told investigators. ''Soldiers kill one of you and ask the other to
eat the dead one.''

This summer, The Times set out to profile a child caught up in the struggle as
part of a project to document how conflicts around the world invariably have an
impact the most innocent.

A 9-year-old boy named Chuol, who lived in a village near Leer, told a harrowing
story of his father and grandfather being forced into a hut and burned alive the
night the fighters swept in.

Their screams could be heard as the rest of the family fled into the swamps. He
lost contact with his mother in the chaos. His grandmother recalled the terror
in vivid detail.

''There was an old man who could not run,'' she said. ''The soldiers called to
him by name. They told him to open his mouth. One boy put an AK-47 in his mouth
and killed him.''

As the surviving members of the family made their way through the swamp, what
little sleep Chuol found as he clung to reeds or a patch of dry land was warped
by nightmares.

Even when the family found temporary sanctuary on a small island, he did not
speak for days.

''The situation of that particular child is unfortunately very typical,'' said
Jonathan Veitch, the Unicef representative in South Sudan.

There are about 850,000 children who have been displaced from their homes. An
untold number of girls have been abducted, Mr. Veitch said, and at least 16,000
boys have been recruited to serve as soldiers by the two sides.

A peace deal signed in August called for child soldiers to be released from
service, but Mr. Veitch said that neither of the sides had taken any steps to
make that happen.

''Both sides continue to deny even using child soldiers,'' he said.

In August, when President Obama visited Africa, he made brokering a peace a
central focus of his trip. That pressure helped bring the warring parties
together to reach a tentative cease-fire.

However, there continue to be reports of violations and fighting. Not far from
where Chuol sought safety, witnesses have reported continuing clashes.

In recent weeks, witnesses have reported a mass grave in Leer filled with people
killed on Oct. 24. Separately, there are multiple reports of militias' raiding
nearby villages and abducting women and girls.

Doctors Without Borders has once again been forced to suspend operations in Leer
after its facilities were looted and staff members were threatened.

''Violence against the civilian population is escalating,'' said Tara Newell,
the organization's emergency manager. ''The civilian population is being
subjected to repeated and targeted violence.''

As the reports of atrocities mount, there is fear that even the fragile peace
process will completely collapse.

''Hard-line elements on both sides didn't want a deal, perceiving the war as a
winner-take-all affair,'' said John Prendergast, a rights activist who has
worked on issues related to Sudan and South Sudan for three decades. He said
that both sides -- through violence and policy -- continue to undermine any hope
of a sustainable peace.

''As long as there is no cost to the perpetrators, the status quo will stand,''
he said. One possible source of leverage, he said, would be seizing the assets
of the leaders fueling the conflict, many of which have been invested outside
the country.

Even as fighting continued in some parts of the country, negotiators said last
week that they had established a security framework that would allow for a
transitional government -- with Mr. Kiir remaining as president and Mr. Machar
back in his post as vice president.

While observers said it was a hopeful sign, the fighting has generated blood
feuds that will be hard to quell, and the battle lines grow more complicated the
longer the war goes on.

The nation's two largest ethnic groups -- the Dinka, aligned with the
government; and the Nuer, aligned with the rebels -- have been at war since the
conflict began. The nation's third-largest group, the Shilluk, was initially
aligned with the government but this spring switched to join the rebels.

In the area around Leer, a subset of the Nuer -- the Bull Nuer -- formed an
alliance with the government when its commanders became disillusioned with the
rebel leadership. By many accounts, Bull Nuer militias have committed some of
the worst atrocities in the region.

Mr. Deng, the man who was shot and whose daughters were abducted, said peace was
hard to imagine when all he had known was war.

''When the last war ended, we had high hopes, but those hopes have turned to a
bloody disaster,'' he said. ''We have been told about peace, but how can we
believe that when our women and children are missing. When we cannot eat. For us
to live together again? I don't know how we can forgive our enemies.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/africa/an-island-refuge-surrounded-by-bl
oody-civil-war-in-south-sudan.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A woman holds her severely malnourished granddaughter in a
clinic run by Doctors Without Borders in the Sudd, a vast marshland in South
Sudan. (A4)
 Adults and children caught up in South Sudan's civil war have abandoned their
homes for the relative safety of living on islands in a marshland known as the
Sudd. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LYNSEY ADDARIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CHILDREN (75%); CIVIL WAR (74%);
DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); STARVATION (67%); ETHNIC
GROUPS (60%); VIRTUAL REALITY (54%); ETHNICITY (50%); PEACE PROCESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (59%)

COUNTRY: SUDAN (97%); SOUTH SUDAN (96%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Live and Kicking: Soccer Games to Watch

BYLINE: By ANDREW DAS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 331 words


Put away your favorite club's jersey and get your flags out: it's international
break time again.

World Cup qualifying

Copious amounts of ink and Internet bandwidth will be sacrificed this week
fretting over the United States national team, which opens qualifying for the
2018 World Cup on Friday night with a game against St. Vincent and the
Grenadines (7 p.m. Eastern time, ESPN2) in St. Louis. Do not buy in to most of
it. Unless, of course, the United States loses to St. Vincent and the
Grenadines, in which case you may just want to dig a big hole in the yard and
sit in it for a while.

The week's best two games take place a day earlier, when Chile hosts Colombia
and Argentina welcomes -- well maybe not welcomes -- Brazil to the Estadio
Monumental in Buenos Aires (7 p.m., beIN). Argentina needs a win more than any
of them: It has a loss and a tie from its first two qualifiers, and after the
Brazil game comes a trip to Colombia on Tuesday.

Euro 2016 Playoffs

While the teams in Europe that took care of business in European Championship
qualifying play friendlies this week, eight of the ones that narrowly missed out
get a second chance at booking a place in France next summer. Norway-Hungary
(Thursday), Bosnia-Ireland (Friday) and Ukraine-Slovenia (Saturday) might not
get the juices flowing, but Sweden-Denmark might. Zlatan Ibrahimovic and the
Swedes narrowly missed out on last year's World Cup by losing a playoff, and the
clock will be ticking on him if he misses this one, too. Kickoff is on Saturday
at 2:45 p.m., Eastern time (ESPN2).

Friendlies

If you prefer your matches to be more leisurely, there are several blue-chip
friendlies Friday, most of them on ESPN's streaming service. Among the marquee
matchups are: Spain-England, France-Germany and Italy's visit to Belgium, the
new No. 1 team in the FIFA world rankings. That game was originally scheduled to
be played in Kuwait, but was moved to Brussels when FIFA suspended Kuwait's
soccer association.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/soccer/live-and-kicking-soccer-games-to
-watch.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS
AWARDS (90%); FIFA WORLD CUP (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%);
TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); SOCCER (89%); RANKINGS (78%);
COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); NAICS531110
LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF
APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: ZLATAN IBRAHIMOVIC (67%)

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (54%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); SAINT VINCENT & THE
GRENADINES (91%); BELGIUM (90%); KUWAIT (90%); ENGLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%);
SWEDEN (79%); NORWAY (79%); ITALY (79%); EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); SPAIN
(74%); SLOVENIA (54%); DENMARK (54%); UKRAINE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hearing Offers Hint of Defense for Skeloses

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM; Susanne Craig contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 609 words


When the corruption trial of State Senator Dean G. Skelos and his son Adam
begins next week, there will probably be snippets of salacious talk from both
men, on a father's influence and on undermining the governor in budget
negotiations.

The judge overseeing the case in Federal District Court in Manhattan indicated
during a pretrial hearing on Monday that she was inclined to allow prosecutors
to present certain wiretapped conversations at trial.

The arguments at the hearing also offered a hint about what may be an important
element of the defense's strategy.

Those arguments concerned evidence that the judge, Kimba M. Wood, characterized
as relating to ''sympathy toward Adam Skelos.'' When she began to address the
issue, Christopher P. Conniff, a lawyer for Adam Skelos, quickly noted that it
related to matters that were under seal.

Judge Wood replied that the matters under seal would not be discussed directly.
During the arguments, Mr. Conniff, of the law firm Ropes & Gray, said that
witnesses would testify about ''certain aspects of Adam Skelos's life which were
core to the decision'' to hire him. ''What these witnesses were thinking and
doing,'' he added, ''is core to the case.''

Mr. Skelos, 33, and Senator Skelos, 67, a Long Island Republican who, as
majority leader, was one of the most powerful men in New York politics until his
arrest in May, are charged in an eight-count indictment with bribery, extortion
and honest services fraud conspiracy. The indictment accuses the senator of
using his position to obtain for his son jobs and payments from companies with
business before the state.

Adam Skelos was hired by, did consulting work for or received payments from
several different companies that relate to the case, and has worked for several
that do not. It was unclear to whom Mr. Conniff was referring.

Mr. Conniff did not respond to requests seeking comment.

The trial is scheduled to begin next Monday, and Judge Wood indicated to the
lawyers in a number of instances that she would rule later in the week or at
trial on the admissibility of certain evidence.

During the arguments that hinted at what may be an element of the defense
strategy, it became apparent that the defense had filed court papers in
connection with the issues ex parte, meaning they had gone only to the judge and
not the prosecutors, a rare circumstance that can suggest highly personal or
health matters may be at play.

Prosecutors expressed concern at the pretrial hearing about what the witnesses
would say. The judge then ruled that she would question the witnesses about what
they would testify to, before they appeared before the jury.

Judge Wood also told the lawyers that she expected she would allow prosecutors
to present wiretapped conversations in which Senator Skelos and his son
discussed using questions about the finances of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's
girlfriend, Sandra Lee, to undermine the governor, a Democrat, in budget
negotiations.

The judge also suggested that she was inclined to admit another wiretapped
conversation between Adam Skelos and the head of an association of Greek diners,
to whom the younger Mr. Skelos had sought to sell natural gas. During the
conversation, Mr. Skelos made veiled threats and boasted of his father's power
and influence, suggesting that the head of the association could have benefited
from actions by the senator.

But when he was asked what the senator could do for him, Mr. Skelos said: ''I'm
not going to go there. I'm not going to say this on the phone.''

Judge Wood said, ''This is without question odd language for someone to use if
he's trying to sell natural gas to someone.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/nyregion/skelos-case-hearing-offers-hint-of-po
ssible-defense-strategy.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WITNESSES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); INDICTMENTS
(89%); CORRUPTION (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); JUDGES (78%); BRIBERY (78%); ARRESTS (78%);
GOVERNORS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); LAW
COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); WIRETAPPING
(76%); EXTORTION (73%); CONSPIRACY (73%)

COMPANY: ROPES & GRAY LLP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Silver's Grants Suppressed in Budget Reports, Official Testifies

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER and SUSANNE CRAIG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 774 words


Until Sheldon Silver's arrest and subsequent resignation as speaker of the New
York Assembly, he was considered one of the state's most powerful politicians,
controlling how billions of dollars of state funds were doled out.

On Monday, federal prosecutors in Mr. Silver's corruption trial turned to a
relatively obscure staff member on the Assembly Ways and Means Committee whose
title seemed as bland as the job he held -- deputy budget director for budget
studies -- to open a window into the seemingly impenetrable world of state
finances that Mr. Silver controlled.

The staff member, Victor E. Franco, in his second day of testimony at the trial
in Manhattan, elaborated on the budgetary process, as prosecutors sought to
illustrate that Mr. Silver controlled it all with little transparency or
accountability, particularly on the Health Department grants that are the focus
of the case.

''What, if any steps, Mr. Franco, did you take to in fact conceal or not reveal
the amount of discretionary funding that Sheldon Silver had allocated to items
of his own choosing?'' a prosecutor, Howard S. Master, asked the witness.

''Typically,'' Mr. Franco replied, ''it was our protocol not to print reports or
anything that was specifically related to the speaker.''

''How would you carry out that protocol?'' Mr. Master asked.

Mr. Franco said: ''If it was an Excel spreadsheet, we would suppress the line
that had his name on it. Stuff like that.''

Prosecutors have charged that Mr. Silver, 71, who spent more than two decades as
speaker, abused his position by arranging for a prominent cancer researcher to
receive $500,000 in State Health Department grants in the mid-2000s through a
complex scheme through which Mr. Silver received illegal payments that were
disguised as referral fees.

Mr. Silver, a Democrat from the Lower East Side of Manhattan, has pleaded not
guilty to charges that include honest services fraud and extortion. He remains
an assemblyman.

Much of the testimony from Mr. Franco and a second witness, Steven August, a
supervisor, focused on Mr. Silver's power to approve discretionary funding,
known as member items, like the Health Department grants that the government
says he arranged for the cancer specialist, Dr. Robert N. Taub, at Columbia
University, as part of the alleged kickback scheme.

When Mr. Franco took the stand last Thursday, Mr. Master asked whether anyone
other than Mr. Silver was empowered to make the final decision about what
entities would receive Health Department grants and how much they would receive.

''The speaker was the ultimate decision-maker,'' Mr. Franco said.

Mr. August, who is retired but previously worked in the Assembly in a senior
budget position, testified that Mr. Silver exerted enormous control over huge
pots of money. Mr. August described attending meetings at which the lawmaker
would say ''yes'' or ''no'' to countless money requests, almost always without
further discussion.

If Mr. Silver wanted to proceed, ''we would move forward and process the
request,'' Mr. August testified.

Mr. August said that he was unaware of any public disclosures of the
discretionary Health Department grants, and that he did not recall any case in
which an agency rejected an application like the one approved by the Assembly
for Dr. Taub.

After the state law changed, requiring disclosure, another prosecutor, Carrie H.
Cohen, told the jury in an opening statement last week, Mr. Silver stopped
having grants go to Dr. Taub.

One of Mr. Silver's lawyers, Justin V. Shur, in cross-examining Mr. Franco,
elicited testimony that appeared to be intended to show that Mr. Silver's role
as the ''ultimate decision-maker'' was legal and authorized, that he relied on
his staff for advice and that their efforts were ''collaborative.''

Mr. Franco also testified that many of the grants Mr. Silver sponsored went
outside of his district and were for other projects, including education and
recreation, business support and beautification.

Dennis Whalen, the state's former deputy secretary for health and human
services, also testified on Monday that grants came to his department pursuant
to a pre-existing agreement worked out by the Assembly and that his department's
job was to ''process'' the grants.

On cross-examination by Mr. Shur, he said the grants, once awarded, did,
however, require approval or review by the state attorney general and
comptroller. Mr. Silver's lawyer asked him if it would be safe to say that 20
state officials were involved in reviewing these grants, and he said yes.

''That would be fairly common?'' Mr. Shur asked.

''Yes,'' Mr. Whalen responded.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/nyregion/sheldon-silvers-grants-suppressed-in-
budget-reports-official-testifies-in-corruption-trial.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Assemblyman Sheldon Silver, the former speaker, entering federal
court in Manhattan on Monday for his corruption trial. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM
HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); TESTIMONY (90%); ARRESTS (90%); WITNESSES (89%); BRIBERY
(89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH
ADMINISTRATION (88%); EXTORTION (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); ONCOLOGY (75%); HEALTH
DEPARTMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); CANCER (63%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gunman Kills One and Wounds Two Near Penn Station

BYLINE: By J. DAVID GOODMAN and NATE SCHWEBER; Emily Palmer, Marc Santora and
Tatiana Schlossberg contributed reporting, and Susan C. Beachy contributed
research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1286 words


Sandwiched between the gleaming towers rising over the West Side of Midtown
Manhattan and the bright lights of 42nd Street, a corridor of brown brick
buildings along Eighth Avenue shrouds the remnants of an earlier era of New York
City street life. The drug-addled loll on corners. The pornography seekers slink
out of shops.

The McDonald's near Pennsylvania Station is a magnet for addicts, those
undergoing methadone treatment around the corner and dealers looking for easy
prey. It was there, at a table around 6 a.m. on Monday, that three men who found
common bond in their addictions sat for coffee and spoke with another man,
dressed in a sweatshirt. Minutes later, the fourth man opened fire on the group.

As they fled into an Eighth Avenue subway station and into the rush of commuter
traffic, all three were struck. Angel Quiñones, a 43-year-old father who battled
a long addiction to heroin, died at the scene. His two coffeemates were taken to
Bellevue Hospital Center: William Lamboy, 45, shot in the neck and abdomen, and
Eddie Torres, 48, shot in the leg.

The New York Police Department's chief of detectives, Robert K. Boyce, said the
motive in the shooting, which occurred a half-block from the local police
precinct station house on 35th Street, was narcotics. The gunman fled with at
least two other men in a dark-colored sedan. No arrests had been made as of
Monday evening.

In an area of Manhattan that has undergone tremendous change over the past two
decades, with crime rates plummeting since the 1990s, the corner where the
shooting erupted -- next to a Starbucks, across the street from a Staples, near
a new Wyndham hotel -- persists as a pocket of grit and the occasional burst of
violence. Beside the chain stores that have migrated to Midtown remain local
ones hawking discount clothes, wigs and laser hair removal under crooked awnings
and up graffiti-scrawled staircases.

''You go along Eighth Avenue and it's pretty much back into the '70s at 34th to
35th,'' said James Albert, a retired police inspector and the chief of security
for the 34th Street Partnership, a business improvement organization. ''There's
assaults; there's some drug dealing going on.''

Little of the development that has reshaped the skyline has gone there, where
the sidewalks are often blackened with waste water and men and some women mill
about among the passing pedestrian throngs of tourists, shoppers and office
workers.

''There's no real friends out here,'' said Nikita Wells, 56, a nurse's assistant
who lives in Jamaica, Queens, and attends the methadone program at the clinic,
West Midtown Medical Group.

Tony Smith, 51, who also goes to the clinic, said he tried to avoid the area at
night. If he is there after dark, he said, ''I don't let my guard down.''

The killing on Monday was the seventh recorded so far this year in the
surrounding police precinct, Midtown South, up from zero at this point last
year. Bucking a citywide trend, overall crime in the precinct is up. Robberies,
a bellwether crime of public perceptions of safety, increased nearly 20 percent
from last year, to 184 as of Sunday, and more than 30 percent from five years
ago.

Few who know the neighborhood were surprised to learn that the shooting on
Monday could be traced to an altercation in the fast food restaurant between
34th and 35th Streets so notorious among users of synthetic marijuana and heroin
that some have taken to calling it ''junkie McDonald's.'' The police have made
dozens of drug arrests there so far this year.

The office of Councilman Corey Johnson, a Democrat who represents the area,
issued a letter on Monday night asking the owner of the McDonald's franchise to
meet with the police and several elected officials to discuss ''extremely
troubling conditions'' at the restaurant.

There are roughly 2,000 clients of the methadone clinic and needle exchange in
the area, said Barbara Blair Randall, president of the Garment District
Alliance. ''Most go in, get their treatment and go off to work,'' she said.
''But there is a contingent who hang out in the area.''

Allegra Schorr, an owner and vice president of the West Midtown Medical Group,
around the corner from the McDonald's, said the fatal shooting did not remove
the need for drug treatment in Midtown. ''The idea that the reaction is to get
rid of this, that would only make things much, much worse,'' Ms. Schorr said.
''Right now we're only putting our finger in a dam.''

The three men were drinking coffee when another man in his 40s wearing a hooded
sweatshirt came into the McDonald's, Chief Boyce said. They had a brief
discussion, captured on grainy video, then the man in the sweatshirt left, the
chief said.

Witnesses described an argument that spilled from the restaurant into the
street. P.J. Basile, who was inside the McDonald's, said he recognized the three
victims from the methadone clinic. He said the three were talking with another
group that included a former client of the clinic and the gunman.

''He had run to the car and grabbed his weapon,'' Mr. Basile said. ''He clacked
his gun; that's when I was nervous and backed up.'' He added that the victims
''walked into an ambush.''

As the three men walked out onto the sidewalk, Chief Boyce said they were
followed by the man in the sweatshirt, who had been waiting.

Joe Sarcone was walking north with his wife on the east side of Eighth Avenue
near the McDonald's when he saw several men outside the restaurant arguing.

The confrontation on the sidewalk quickly spilled down into the subway station
at 35th Street and Eighth Avenue. Inside the station, before the men could reach
the turnstiles, four shots were fired, Chief Boyce said.

''Everybody started scattering,'' Mr. Sarcone said. ''Then I heard, 'Pow, pow.'
''

Mr. Lamboy, who was shot in the torso, was sedated and unable to speak to
detectives, but Mr. Torres had been helping the police piece together the
events, Chief Boyce said.

Edmund Pieters, 52, a group leader at West Midtown Medical Group, said he knew
the three victims, including Mr. Quiñones, who went by the nicknames Milo and
Memo. Mr. Torres, whom he called Fat Man, came less frequently to the clinic,
which provides medical and psychiatric help, said Mr. Pieters, a recovering
addict who said he had been clean since 1989.

All three men had criminal histories that often accompany longstanding
addictions, with arrests for drug offenses, some dating to the 1980s and 1990s.

Mr. Pieters said both Mr. Quiñones and Mr. Lamboy began attending the clinic
before 2009, when Mr. Pieters joined, and they had improved greatly. He said
both men were employed.

''When they first started, they looked like zombies,'' Mr. Pieters said. ''But
now they've put some weight on them, and their daily routine was coffee and
group meetings.''

Mr. Pieters described Mr. Lamboy as quiet and friendly, and Mr. Quiñones as a
''funny cat.''

Roberto Quiñones said he did not know the people who were with his brother at
the time of the shooting, saying only that his brother had struggled to overcome
heroin addiction.

''His whole life he'd been up and down,'' Mr. Quiñones, 36, said. He said his
brother lived with their father in the Bronx; had a son, Angel Quiñones Jr., 13;
and worked in Manhattan.

''It's crazy how he's getting his life together now after so many years and this
happens,'' Mr. Quiñones said, speaking from the Office of the Chief Medical
Examiner, where he and other relatives gathered to identify the body.

''All I can say, he was a good father, he worked, he took care of his family,''
Mr. Quiñones said. ''But everybody has their own downfall, everybody's
struggling in life. It's New York. What do you expect?''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/nyregion/three-shot-near-pennsylvania-station-
in-manhattan.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The McDonald's on Eighth Avenue near 35th Street is known as a
congregating place for drug addicts and dealers. Dozens of drug arrests have
been made there this year.
Officials removed Angel Quiñones's body. He tried to escape by running into a
subway station on Monday. (A19)
Police Commissioner William J. Bratton at the scene of the shooting Monday
 the gunman fled north along Eighth Avenue. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW RENNEISEN FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%);
SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); CONTROLLED
SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); DRUG POLICY (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (77%);
SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (76%); HAIR REMOVAL
SERVICES (76%); VANDALISM (75%); ARRESTS (75%); HEROIN (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING
(72%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (71%); MEDICAL LASERS (71%); GRAFFITI (69%);
HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); COMMUTING (68%); NECK DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SeaWorld Ends Show With Orcas in San Diego

BYLINE: By DANIEL VICTOR

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 430 words


SeaWorld said on Monday that it planned to phase out next year its San Diego
killer whale performance, a central point for criticism of how its animals are
treated.

The company, which also has parks in Orlando, Fla., and San Antonio, said in a
company document posted on Monday that it would replace its theatrical Shamu
show in San Diego with an ''informative'' experience that has a ''conservation
message inspiring people to act.''

The announcement does not affect shows with orcas at the parks in Texas and
Florida, said Fred Jacobs, a company spokesman.

SeaWorld has been under heavy scrutiny since ''Blackfish,'' a documentary that
criticized the park's treatment of orcas, was released in 2013, and attendance
has suffered.

The pressure to stop using the orcas as performers has been particularly intense
in California. On Friday, Representative Adam Schiff, Democrat of California,
said he would introduce a bill in Congress that would prohibit the breeding,
wild capture and import or export of the whales.

In October, the California Coastal Commission banned the breeding of killer
whales in captivity, a decision SeaWorld said was an overreach of the agency's
authority. The commission attached the ban to its approval of a proposed
expansion of SeaWorld's whale habitat in San Diego.

In a presentation to investors, Joel Manby, SeaWorld's president and chief
executive, said the decision to end the performances was not based on public
criticism, as ''activists aren't going to be pleased with anything we do.'' But
he said guests in San Diego had expressed changing tastes, adding that they
wanted a more natural experience simulating how whales would behave in the wild
and that they didn't like actions that appeared to be tricks.

''We didn't do anything in San Diego because of the activists,'' Mr. Manby said.
''We did it because we're hearing it from our guests.''

In a statement, Jared Goodman, the director of animal law for People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals, said the ''end to SeaWorld's tawdry circus-style
shows is inevitable and necessary,'' but he called on the company to build sea
sanctuaries and stop breeding orcas.

''This move is like no longer whipping lions in a circus act but keeping them
locked inside cages for life,'' he said.

Mr. Schiff, in a statement, called the decision a ''welcome step'' but echoed
the call for sanctuaries and the end of breeding.

''The fact still remains that as long as SeaWorld holds orcas in captivity, the
physical and psychological problems associated with their captivity will
persist,'' he said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/seaworld-san-diego-killer-whales-sham
u-show.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A trainer hugs a whale at SeaWorld in Orlando, Fla. The
company's shift in whale performances does not affect the Florida park.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RAOUX/ASSOCIATED PRESS JOHN RAOUX/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (92%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); MAMMALS (78%);
ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ANIMALS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%);
COASTAL AREAS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); CONSERVATION (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS
(74%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); APPROVALS (69%); MENTAL
ILLNESS (69%); ANIMAL CONTROL (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

PERSON: ADAM B SCHIFF (52%)

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); SAN ANTONIO, TX,
USA (73%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justices Back Police Officer Who Shot a Fleeing Suspect From a Highway Overpass

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 518 words


WASHINGTON --  The Supreme Court on Monday ruled for a police officer who shot
and killed a fleeing suspect from a highway overpass. The court's decision was
unsigned and issued without full briefing and oral argument, an indication that
the majority found the case to be easy.

In dissent, Justice Sonia Sotomayor said the ruling endorsed ''a 'shoot first,
think later' approach to policing.''

The case concerned an 18-minute high-speed car chase near Tulia, Tex., in 2010
that started when a police officer tried to serve an arrest warrant on Israel
Leija Jr. at a drive-in restaurant.

Mr. Leija fled on Interstate 27, at speeds between 85 and 110 miles an hour,
twice calling the police dispatcher to threaten to shoot at the officers
pursuing him. Other officers set up a spike strip to try to disable his car.

A state trooper, Chadrin L. Mullenix, took a position on a highway overpass,
where he was told to ''stand by'' and ''see if the spikes work first.'' Mr.
Mullenix instead fired six shots, killing Mr. Leija. The car then hit the spike
strip and rolled over twice.

Mr. Leija's family sued, saying Mr. Mullenix had used excessive force, and lower
courts let the case proceed.

But the Supreme Court ruled that Mr. Mullenix was entitled to qualified
immunity, a doctrine that shields officials from suits over violations of
constitutional rights that were not clearly established at the time of the
conduct in question. The majority did not decide whether Mr. Mullenix's actions
violated the Constitution, but it did say there was no clear precedent that
would have alerted him that his tactics amounted to unconstitutionally excessive
force.

The Supreme Court has twice before considered high-speed chases that ended in
the death or paralysis of the fleeing driver.

Last year, in Plumhoff v. Rickard, it ruled for officers from West Memphis,
Ark., who killed a driver and his passenger in a hail of 15 bullets in a parking
lot in Memphis. The shootings were lawful, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. wrote for
the court, saying the chase had posed a grave risk to bystanders.

In 2007, in Scott v. Harris, the court ruled against a Georgia man who was
paralyzed when his car was rammed by the police during a chase. There, too, the
majority cited the risks to others.

Monday's case, Mullenix v. Luna, No. 14-1143, was different, the majority
acknowledged, because ''traffic was light on I-27.'' But it added that there
existed ''no case from this court denying qualified immunity because officers
entitled to terminate a high-speed chase selected one dangerous alternative over
another.''

In her dissent, Justice Sotomayor said the chosen alternative amounted to
''rogue conduct.''

''Chadrin Mullenix fired six rounds in the dark at a car traveling 85 miles per
hour,'' she wrote. ''He did so without any training in that tactic, against the
wait order of his superior officer, and less than a second before the car hit
spike strips deployed to stop it.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/politics/supreme-court-sides-with-police-of
ficer-who-shot-man-in-car-chase.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGHWAYS & STREETS (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); DEATHS &
INJURIES BY POLICE (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS
(90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); IMMUNITY
(78%); ARREST WARRANTS (73%); MISCONDUCT (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES
(70%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ALITO (58%); SONIA SOTOMAYOR (58%)

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Letters to the Editor

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; REACTIONS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 642 words


Psychology

Waiting and Worrying

TO THE EDITOR:

Re ''Don't Worry About Fretting'' (Nov. 3): My entire life, people have been
giving me advice on how I should prepare myself when I am anticipating news. I
have discovered that assuming the worst and preparing for the best has saved me
from a lot of anger and misery; so I am elated to know that I am not the only
one in the world who has this mind-set.

As a student, I am often taking exams, and occasionally I am unsure of my
responses to questions. Assuming the worst makes it easier to cope with
disappointment while making my successes more valuable.

Sarah Mendenhall San Jose, Calif.

TO THE EDITOR:

As a writer, clinical social worker and natural pessimist turned ''learned''
optimist (with thanks to Martin Seligman and the Positive Psychology
researchers) I loved this article. My one concern is the notion that
''optimism'' doesn't necessarily mean the absence of what our culture views as
negative emotions, but rather the diminishing (or absence, for some) of
gratuitous negativity, worry and self-deprecating emotions without any basis in
fact.

In the face of my husband's life-threatening hospitalization a couple of years
ago (not the illness, the hospitalization, caused by misdiagnosis and
maltreatment) I made it clear to those who encouraged me to ''be optimistic''
that my form of optimism meant assuming the worst could happen and doing
everything in my power to try to steer it in a different direction. Optimism
without worry -- and action -- would have killed my husband. Gratuitous worry
drains energy, productivity, and focus. Appropriate worry can save a life.

Carol Coven Grannick Evanston, Ill.

TO THE EDITOR:

Sad is not bad, but the implication in this article that anxiety can be
acceptable and not worth defeating merits hefty skepticism.

Sadness, anxiety and concern are different entities: Sadness and concern can
motivate, anxiety can debilitate. By thinking in healthy ways, we have an active
part in creating healthier emotions, minimizing emotional suffering and
maximizing joy.

In his groundbreaking work, Albert Ellis, who heralded in the cognitive
revolution in psychology, taught the distinction between healthy negative
emotions (e.g. concern) and unhealthy ones (e.g. anxiety). To create the healthy
ones requires willingness to think in realistic (not Pollyannaish) ways, and to
recognize when we are catastrophizing and then to dispute such thoughts.

Allowing ourselves to maintain anxiety and worry, by telling ourselves that it
is O.K., is regrettable when we can choose to suffer less by vigorously
disputing irrational beliefs and by actively seeing things from a healthy
perspective.

To say ''Don't be happy, worry'' may sound cute, but it may be a lazy person's
response to an often disabling emotion and tendency. How about saying instead:
''Don't worry, think wisely, be healthier and happier.''

Debbie Joffe Ellis Manhattan

Mental Health

Preventing Suicide

TO THE EDITOR:

Re ''Deadly Isolation'' (Nov. 3): Many rural areas have limited mental health
resources, but a telephone hotline could be a lifeline for someone who is having
suicidal thoughts and urgently needs an understanding response. Trained workers
can provide temporary and immediate support until other arrangements can be
made. Help would be just a phone call away.

Phyllis Bogen Cresskill, N.J.

Many who commit suicide convince themselves that their family and friends either
don't care or will be better off without them. News stories about suicides and
the suffering that follows can serve only to discourage suicide and encourage
those seeking it to seek care.

John Parken Jacksonville, Fla., posted to nytimes.com

­Science Times welcomes letters, comments on nytimes.com and social media posts
from readers. Email should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/science/letters-to-the-editor.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (92%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%);
WRITERS (73%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (68%)

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (56%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (56%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 40 words


''Tim Wolfe's resignation was a necessary step toward healing and reconciliation
on the University of Missouri campus.''

GOV. JAY NIXON OF MISSOURI, on the president of the university system, who
stepped down after student and faculty protests.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/todayspaper/quotation-of-the-day.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (87%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (83%)

PERSON: JAY NIXON (69%)

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ice, Ice, Maybe Heat

BYLINE: By C. CLAIBORNE RAY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Q&A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 231 words


Q. What determines whether one should use heat or ice to treat muscle and joint
pain, especially after exercise?

A. Cold therapy, or cryotherapy, is usually recommended in the immediate
aftermath of an acute injury, like a severe bruise or sprain, not mere soreness.
The familiar RICE sequence -- rest, ice, compression and elevation -- helps
reduce the pain and inflammation of such an injury. It loses efficacy after a
day or so, however, and then gentle warming can help.

For the lingering muscle pain that emerges some time after vigorous exercise,
called delayed onset muscle soreness, heat and cold have been used with success
in individual cases, but scientific studies comparing the efficacy of treatments
have been sparse and inconclusive.

A new comparison, published this year in The Journal of Strength and
Conditioning Research, looked at muscle damage and pain in 100 people of
comparable fitness. Half received either cold or heat treatment after 15 minutes
of leg squats and half received no treatment. The researchers concluded that
both heat and cold appeared to be effective in reducing muscle damage, but cold
used immediately after exercise or 24 hours later was superior in reducing pain.
question@nytimes.com

Questions of general interest will be answered, but requests for medical advice
cannot be honored and unpublished letters cannot be answered individually.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/science/should-you-treat-muscle-pain-with-ice-
or-heat.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VICTORIA ROBERTS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); WEIGHTLIFTING (78%);
MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); PHYSICAL FITNESS (78%); CONTUSIONS
(77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Study Data Illuminates Hypertension and Its Risks

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1329 words


When the federal government announced in September that it had abruptly halted a
large blood pressure study because its results were so compelling, doctors were
left in frustrating limbo.

The announcement said researchers had found that driving systolic blood pressure
to levels far below what current guidelines recommend -- less than 120 instead
of 140 or 150 millimeters of mercury -- can save lives and prevent heart disease
and strokes. But they declined to release any data on the number of lives saved,
the number of heart attacks prevented or other critical measures.

''How can anyone do anything different tomorrow with regard to blood pressure
control without knowing more about what they found?'' asked Dr. Harlan Krumholz,
a cardiologist at Yale, echoing the concerns of other specialists.

On Monday, reporting at an American Heart Association meeting in Orlando, Fla.,
and in a paper published simultaneously in The New England Journal of Medicine,
study investigators lifted the veil. Among the 9,361 hypertension patients
followed for an average of 3.2 years, there were 26 percent fewer deaths (155
compared with 210) and 38 percent fewer cases of heart failure (62 compared with
100) among patients who achieved the systolic pressure target of 120 than among
those who achieved the current 140 target.

Systolic pressure is the higher of the two blood pressure numbers and represents
pressure on blood vessels when the heart contracts.

Over all, there was a 24 percent reduction -- 243 compared with 319 -- in people
who had a heart attack, heart failure or stroke or died from heart disease, Dr.
Paul K. Whelton, a principal investigator for the study, said.

The older participants did just as well as younger ones.

For millions of Americans with high blood pressure, the results could be
transforming, said Dr. Marc Alan Pfeffer, a cardiologist at Brigham and Women's
Hospital in Boston who was not affiliated with the study.

Before now, Dr. Pfeffer said, if a patient over 50 years old with high
cholesterol or another well-controlled risk factor for heart disease came into
his office with systolic pressure of 136 he would pat the patient on the back
and say, ''Great job.'' Now, he said, he would feel obligated to give the
patient more hypertension drugs. Otherwise, he said, ''I would have lost the
opportunity to help another human being.''

At least 17 million Americans will be affected by the findings right now,
calculated Paul Muntner, an epidemiologist at the University of Alabama who was
not affiliated with the study.

The study, called Sprint, enrolled patients ages 50 and older with high blood
pressure. The patients also had at least one other risk factor for heart disease
like smoking or a high cholesterol level, or they had kidney disease, or they
were simply over the age of 75. Half were assigned to a systolic pressure target
below 140, in keeping with today's medical practice. The rest were assigned a
target pressure of less than 120. The study was supposed to continue until 2017,
but ended abruptly last summer when researchers announced they already had
''potentially lifesaving'' results.

Doctors have long wrestled with how low blood pressure should go. Bringing it
too far down, particularly in elderly people, can result in complications like
dizziness and fainting. According to the results released Monday, about 5
percent of the study's patients, or 220 people, with the 120 blood pressure
target had serious complications over the course of the study -- blood pressure
so low it caused severe dizziness or fainting, or a reversible injury to the
kidneys. Among those with the 140 target, 118 had serious complications.

A complication the investigators worried about with blood pressures of 120 or
lower -- an abrupt drop in blood pressure when people stood up -- actually
occurred more often in those with the higher systolic pressure target.

''When we put those complications in the context of a 27 percent reduction in
total mortality, it seems that the benefits outweigh the risks,'' said David M.
Reboussin, a biostatistician at Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center and a
principal investigator for the study.

What is most remarkable, researchers said, is that the improvements in death
rates and rates of heart attacks occurred on top of improvements these patients
already experienced as their blood pressures fell to 140.

To get their systolic pressures to 120, patients took an average of one
additional blood pressure drug -- 2.8 pills instead of 1.8. Almost all blood
pressure pills are inexpensive and available as generics.

It is now up to committees that formulate national guidelines to decide how to
change their recommendations. Dr. Whelton, chairman of the heart association's
guidelines committee, said his group would meet on Monday night to consider the
new data.

One issue is what to tell patients with diabetes, who were not included in this
study. A previous, much smaller study with diabetics that tested stringent blood
sugar control along with a blood pressure of 120 found no reduction in heart
attacks or deaths. But many researchers are not convinced that the study, called
Accord, proved that lower systolic pressure failed to help people with diabetes,
because it was so much smaller and because blood sugar control was also being
tested.

Another question is what to advise people under age 50 and those over 50 with no
risk factors other than high blood pressure.

''That will be a judgment call,'' said Dr. Jackson T. Wright Jr., a study
investigator who also is on the guidelines committee and who directs the
hypertension program at University Hospitals Case Medical Center in Cleveland.

There also is the unanswered question of how low blood pressure should go. A few
patients in the new study lowered their systolic pressure to 110, but getting it
below 120 was a challenge for most people. Dr. Wright said it was almost
inconceivable that there would be another large study comparing, say, a pressure
of 110 to one of 120. ''That is a very narrow window,'' he said, and the
expected differences in outcomes would be small, meaning the study would have to
be very large and prolonged.

Even if the guidelines end up recommending a goal of less than 120 only for
people like those in the study, doctors will face a challenge, said Dr. Aram V.
Chobanian of Boston University Medical Center, who wrote a commentary in The New
England Journal of Medicine. A third to half of all patients fail to meet even
the current blood pressure goals of 140 to 150.

Some hypertension experts urge caution. Dr. Michael Alderman, a blood pressure
expert at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx, calculated that the
study results mean six people per 1,000 annually would avoid a heart attack,
stroke, or heart failure. That, he said, can make it difficult to know how to
advise individual patients.

''If there were no, or minimal, harms like a safe one-time vaccination, it would
be a no-brainer,'' Dr. Alderman said. ''But if it means decades-long pill taking
by generally healthy folks, the decision gets more difficult.''

Dr. Krumholz of Yale said that while the study results were exciting, a lower
blood pressure should not be seen as a mandate. Getting pressure that low, he
said, ''comes at some risk.'' Doctors will have to talk to patients about their
preferences and goals, he said.

Dr. Pfeffer said the next challenge was to have these discussions with patients,
but he said he was ready to start recommending a goal of less than 120 to
appropriate motivated patients.

One of his patients, William Dougherty, 77, is ready. Mr. Dougherty, who lives
in Boston, says he is healthy and his blood pressure has been controlled with
one pill so it is reliably under 140. But he has a family history of heart
disease, and that scares him.

''I will do anything if it lowers my risk of stroke or heart attacks,'' he said.
''Those are my biggest fears at my age.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/health/data-on-benefits-of-lower-blood-pressur
e-brings-clarity-for-doctors-and-patients.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Marc Alan Pfeffer
 William Dougherty (A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEART DISEASE (91%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (91%); INVESTIGATIONS
(90%); HYPERTENSION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%);
CARDIOLOGY (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); STROKES (78%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS
(78%); CHOLESTEROL (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); KIDNEY DISEASE (71%);
TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (67%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
(53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION
INC (56%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Off Work, on Their Behinds

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN REYNOLDS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 928 words


Using a standing desk at the office may adversely influence how much time you
spend lounging in a chair at home, according to a new study of sedentary
behavior. The findings subtly underscore that, when it comes to health habits
and exercise, we humans have a surprising capacity to be our own worst enemies.

There is virtually unanimous scientific agreement that uninterrupted sitting is
bad for us. Sitting for long stretches of time has been linked to markedly
increased risks for obesity, diabetes and other metabolic disorders, heart
disease and premature death.

But it can be difficult not to sit, especially for those of us who work in
offices. Past studies of deskbound workers have shown that most of us sit for
about 10 hours or more every day, with the majority of that chair time occurring
at work.

Such statistics account for the growing popularity of sit-stand workstations,
which allow people to stand up for at least part of their workday. In
experiments, workers who receive sit-stand desks generally reduce the amount of
time that they spend seated during office hours, at least in the short term, and
often report feeling more energetic and productive.

But the ripple effect these desks have on people's lives has not been studied.
It might seem as if standing up in one arena, when we know that doing so is
healthy, should inspire us to stand up in others.

But the human body and brain are funny. They often, and rather insidiously,
undermine some of our best efforts to be healthier, in an attempt to maintain
our physiological status quo. The result can be that we do not benefit as much
as we'd hoped from changes to our lifestyles. When we slash calories to lose
weight, for instance, our bodies often lower our metabolic rate, and our weight
doesn't budge much.

Similarly, studies of people who begin or greatly intensify an exercise program
have shown that these exercisers often start sitting more during the hours when
they are not working out, so that their overall daily energy expenditure doesn't
increase substantially and the number of hours that they spend sitting grows.

Whether a relatively low-key intervention, however, such as providing people
with sit-stand workstations would likewise cause physiological compensations
away from the office remained unknown.

So for the new study, which was published last month in Medicine & Science in
Sports & Exercise, researchers from Loughborough University in England and
Victoria University in Australia recruited 40 healthy but sedentary university
office workers and had them wear two types of activity monitors for 14 days. One
of the monitors carefully tracked changes in posture that reveal how much
someone is sitting or standing. The other monitor tracked steps and other
physical activity.

Then the researchers provided all of their volunteers with sit-stand
workstations and asked them to don the monitors after a week of using the new
desks, after six weeks and after three months. In each instance, the volunteers
wore the monitors at work and at home for a week at a time.

Then the researchers examined how people's daily activity patterns changed after
they began using the sit-stand desks. And they did change. Before receiving the
new desks, most of the workers had spent about 10 hours each day in a chair
either at the office or at home and less than five hours standing up.

After a week with the new desks, the workers were standing for almost 6.5 hours
in total each day -- between work and home -- and sitting for less than 8.5
hours.

That shift lingered throughout the three-month study period, although there was
some chair-time rebound. After six weeks, the workers were standing for about
six hours a day, and after three months, their daily standing time had fallen to
about 5.5 hours and their sitting time had climbed back to a little over nine
hours.

What's particularly interesting and revelatory about those numbers, though, is
just where they were doing that sitting and standing. When the researchers
looked closely at the volunteers' daily activity patterns, they found that while
the workers were sitting less at the office, they were spending more time seated
at home than they had been at the start of the experiment.

''It appears that participants were compensating for sitting less at work by
sitting more and moving less after work,'' said Stacy Clemes, a professor of
exercise science at Loughborough University who conducted the study with Maedeh
Mansoubi, a graduate student, and other colleagues.

The net effect of giving people sit-stand desks, in other words, was to decrease
the total amount of time they sat each day but nudge them toward sitting more at
home.

These dynamics were evident and accelerated throughout the three months of the
study. Whether they would alter for better or worse after a longer period with
sit-stand desks remains unknown, although Dr. Clemes and her colleagues are
studying that issue.

For now, she said, the message of this experiment is that someone wishing to sit
less should ''consciously think'' about his or her behavior throughout the day,
especially away from the office.

''Stand up and walk around during TV commercials,'' she said. Although, to avoid
undermining your other health intentions, perhaps don't walk to the
refrigerator.

Related:

A Placebo Can Make You Run Faster

Barefoot Running May Be Harder for Older Runners

Eating on the Move May Lead to Later Overindulging

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/11/04/stand-more-at-work-sit-more-at-home/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS
(89%); ANATOMY & PHYSIOLOGY (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); OBESITY
(77%); DIETING (77%); HEART DISEASE (70%); DIABETES (70%); COLLEGES &
UNIVERSITIES (60%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (79%); ENGLAND (51%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Hank Penza, Owner of Mars Bar in the East Village, Dies at 82

BYLINE: By ROBERT SIMONSON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Obituary; Pg.

LENGTH: 412 words


Hank Penza, who owned and presided over Mars Bar, a gritty, storied dive bar in
the East Village and one of the neighborhood's last holdouts in the face of
gentrification, died on Oct. 29 in Manhattan. He was 82.

His son William confirmed his death.

Mars Bar was a defiant drinking bunker, all cinder blocks and roller shutters,
at the southwest corner of Second Avenue and First Street in Manhattan. A
fixture there was Mr. Penza himself, a tall, imposing figure whose dapper style
of dress was at odds with his establishment's grungy ambience.

Mars Bar succumbed to gentrification in 2011, making way for an apartment
complex. But in its prime it was perhaps the epitome of an East Village bar:
menacing, dark and covered inside and out by graffiti, stickers and impromptu
spray-painted artworks. Its forbidding restroom was an urban legend in and of
itself. Performers at CBGB, the nearby nightclub celebrated as a punk-rock hub,
made Mars Bar their preshow watering hole.

But by the time it closed, Mars Bar resembled nothing in the area. A Whole Foods
stood a block away. Fancy restaurants lined the Bowery. New apartment buildings
dwarfed the squat brick building that housed the bar. Today, the site is
occupied by a TD Bank branch.

Mr. Penza had held on, though, offering a port in a storm to the hard-partying
and outmoded East Villagers who were being squeezed out of the neighborhood. In
an interview with The New York Observer in 2005, he identified the sort of
people he did not want in his bar: ''Stockbrokers, investment brokers,
lawyers.''

Locals regarded its closing as the last nail in the coffin for the East Village
that once was -- the scrappy, scruffy melting pot of the Second Avenue Deli,
CBGB, Amato Opera and Allen Ginsberg.

With its layers of impudent grime and devoted barflies, Mars Bar looked as if it
had been there forever. In fact, Mr. Penza opened it in the early 1980s.

It was not his first. He had bought a bar on the Bowery in 1957 and renamed it
Henry's, according to The Observer. He went on to open several others.

Henry Penza was born on Sept. 30, 1933, in Corona, Queens. He left home at 16
and worked odd jobs, among them bailing bookmakers out of jail and doing errands
for the ''21'' Club restaurant.

In addition to his son William, he is survived by another son, Mark; a daughter,
Kim; and three grandchildren.

William and Mark Penza own Billymark's West, a bar of the Mars Bar stripe, on
Ninth Avenue at 29th Street.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/nyregion/hank-penza-owner-of-mars-bar-in-the-e
ast-village-dies-at-82.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); NIGHTCLUBS (78%);
RESTAURANTS (78%); VANDALISM (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); RESIDENTIAL
RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); GRAFFITI (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); POP & ROCK (68%);
INTERVIEWS (64%); SECURITIES BROKERS (61%); BANK BRANCHES (51%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Botany: Engineering a Plant to Reject Its Own Pollen

BYLINE: By SINDYA N. BHANOO

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; OBSERVATORY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 85 words


Field poppies do not self-pollinate, a strategy that helps keep the species'
gene pool diverse. Now, researchers at the University of Birmingham in England
have successfully transferred two genes from a poppy plant to a self-fertilizing
plant called thale cress. The genetically modified thale cress rejects its own
pollen and that of close relatives, the researchers report in the journal
Science. The experiment may help researchers breed plants that are stronger than
their parents and provide better yields.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/science/scientists-engineer-a-plant-to-reject-
its-own-pollen.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZONGCHENG LIN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); BOTANY (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (88%);
RESEARCH REPORTS (87%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (87%); SCIENCE &
TECHNOLOGY (85%); SCIENCE NEWS (85%)

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (71%)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Biology: Animals Rely on Hair to Keep Clean, Study Finds

BYLINE: By SINDYA N. BHANOO

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; OBSERVATORY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 219 words


The honeybee and the squirrel have the same number of hairs: about three
million. A moth has 10 billion hairs, while the human head has only 100,000.

An unusual new study looks at 27 mammalian and insect species to determine how
animals use their fur and hair to keep themselves tidy.

[Video: A honeybee wipes pollen from its head and a fruit fly swipes corn starch
from its eyes. Watch on YouTube.]

''It is two-sided,'' said David Hu, a mechanical engineer at Georgia Tech and an
author of the study, published in The Journal of Experimental Biology. ''With
hair, animals become a doormat to particles. But on the positive side, it lets
an animal clean itself.''

Dogs shake themselves, loosening dirt from their fur. Bees rely on bristled
appendages to brush away pollen.

Fruit flies toss dust off with their heads and thoraxes. ''The hairs are just
flicking these particles into the air right and left,'' Dr. Hu said. ''Like
catapults.''

Some animals keep clean with less effort, Dr. Hu and his colleagues found.

Cicadas have sharp, hairlike points on their wings that catch and hold bacteria.
Nanostructures on the wings stretch the cell membranes of the bacteria, causing
them to pop like water balloons.

The research could help scientists develop cleaning components for autonomous
devices, Dr. Hu said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/science/animals-rely-on-hair-to-keep-clean-stu
dy-finds.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); BACTERIA (90%);
MAMMALS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); RODENTS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
(77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); WRITERS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paleontology: The Fanged Salamanders of Pangaea

BYLINE: By SINDYA N. BHANOO

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; OBSERVATORY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 230 words


Researchers have discovered amphibian fossils in northeastern Brazil that date
back 278 million years, to the time of the supercontinent Pangaea. Until now,
little was known about animal life in the southern tropical regions of the
continent.

The fossils, described in the journal Nature Communications, include two new
carnivorous species: Timonya annae was a small, eel-like amphibian with fangs
and gills, while Procuhy nazarienis was a larger ''midlevel'' predator. Both
species are distant relatives of modern salamanders.

''There is a longstanding question of how animals were dispersing at the time of
Pangaea and how they made their way from one area to another at that time,''
said Kenneth D. Angielczyk, a paleontologist at the Field Museum of Natural
History in Chicago and one of the study's authors.

Based on their findings, the researchers suspect that the area where the fossils
were discovered -- near the city of Teresina -- had a lake and wetland
environment. Dr. Angielczyk and his colleagues have also found ancient sharks
and fish in the area.

He and his colleagues also discovered the fossil of an amphibian about the size
of a collie, whose later relatives lived in southern Africa, as well as a
lizardlike reptile with relatives in North America. The reptile is the first
they have found, though they have been looking for fossils in the region since
2007.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/science/in-ancient-times-salamanders-bared-the
ir-fangs.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN CISNEROS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PALEONTOLOGY & PALEOBIOLOGY (92%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); FISHES
(90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH
REPORTS (79%); HISTORY (79%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%);
WETLANDS (72%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA
(79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

New York City F.C. Signs New Coach for Its Second Season

BYLINE: By ANDREW DAS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 230 words


New York City F.C. named the French World Cup winner Patrick Vieira as its coach
Monday, plucking him from a developmental role with its parent club, Manchester
City, to try to improve on a disappointing first season in Major League Soccer.

Vieira, 39, replaces Jason Kreis, who was fired last week after N.Y.C.F.C.
(10-17-7) missed the playoffs in its inaugural season. The team said Vieira had
signed a three-year contract.

The job will be Vieira's first as a professional first-team head coach; he has
been the coach of Manchester City's top youth team since June 2013 after a
decorated playing career with Arsenal, Juventus, Internazionale and, in his
final seasons, Manchester City. He won the 1998 World Cup and the 2000 European
championship as a member of France's national team.

The team he will take over in New York will be unlike any of those. New York
City F.C. struggled for consistency, especially defensively, and any immediate
changes to address its deficiencies will be complicated by M.L.S.'s salary cap
and player acquisition rules, which in past years have proved frustrating to
foreign coaches unfamiliar with the league's business model.

Vieira will also not start in his new role until Jan. 1, meaning that some of
the biggest roster decisions will occur before he is in place.

N.Y.C.F.C. said he would travel to New York to meet his new players this week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/soccer/nycfc-hires-patrick-vieira-as-co
ach.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); FIFA WORLD CUP
(90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SOCCER
(78%); COACHES & TRAINERS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); YOUTH
SPORTS (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Athletes' Potential Realized in Resignations

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA.

Email: nocera@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1327 words


Well, that was fast.

When was it, exactly, that the African-American football players at the
University of Missouri tweeted that they were going on strike until ''President
Tim Wolfe resigns or is removed'' from office? It was Saturday night, around 9
p.m. Eastern time.

Now consider the following timeline, which The Columbia Missourian recently
published.

On Sept. 12, Payton Head, the president of the Missouri Student Association,
takes to Facebook to describe a campus incident during which the most vile of
anti-black slurs was hurled at him. A second racial incident occurs on Oct. 5.
By Oct. 10, dissatisfied by the administration's tepid response, a group called
Concerned Student 1950 stages a protest during the homecoming parade. Ten days
later, the group issues eight demands, including ''an increase in the percentage
of black faculty and staff,'' as well as Wolfe's removal from office.

A swastika drawn with feces is discovered in a bathroom on Oct. 24. Concerned
Student 1950 has an inconclusive meeting with Wolfe three days later. Jonathan
Butler, a protest leader, announces a hunger strike on Nov. 2. Another meeting
with Wolfe takes place the next day, during which he promises, essentially, to
do better.

In other words, nearly two months had gone by before the football players
decided to get involved. Once they did, Wolfe lasted all of 36 hours. Later in
the day, Chancellor R. Bowen Loftin said he would resign as well, effective at
the end of the year.

In announcing his resignation Monday morning, Wolfe said he was motivated by his
''love'' for his alma mater. No doubt he was sincere. But it is hard to believe
that his calculations didn't include money as well: the $1 million that Missouri
would be contractually obliged to pay Brigham Young University if the Tigers
failed to play Saturday's game; and the mess it would create for itself -- and
the Southeastern Conference, which it joined only four years ago -- if a
players' strike lasted to the end of the season. Missouri's final SEC game in
late November, against Arkansas, is scheduled to be televised by CBS, which pays
the conference $55 million a year for television rights.

As Andy Schwarz, an economist who has been deeply involved in a series of
antitrust lawsuits against the N.C.A.A., put it, ''the issues at Missouri are
far more important than college football, but the Missouri athletes showed that
the color that matters most is green.''

Will racism be eliminated from the Missouri campus now that the football players
have succeeded in ousting Wolfe? Of course not. On a campus of about 35,000
students, only 7.2 percent are black. The school has worked to attract more
students from urban centers, including outside of Missouri, which can create a
cultural conflict with some in-state rural white students.

In addition to the incidents in which black students were called that repugnant
name on a public street, there have also been several times recently when two
trucks drove down a campus street with the occupants waving a Confederate flag.

''It's a very tense place, very racially tense,'' Stephanie Hernandez Rivera,
the coordinator of the university's Multicultural Center, said in a video
released by the Faculty Council Committee on Race Relations. Earnest L. Perry,
an African-American journalism professor, told me that teaching a required
journalism diversity course throughout the years opened him to ''criticism and
racism, both written and verbal; I am not immune.''

No, it's going to take more than the resignation of its president to fix the
racial problems affecting Mizzou.

On the other hand, Wolfe didn't do himself any favors. A former corporate
executive, Wolfe possessed a command-and-control style that didn't jibe well
with campus life. And he clearly didn't know how to respond to the protests.

Qiana Jade, a Missouri student, posted a video on Twitter showing an exchange
between Wolfe and some protesters. It shows him clearly out of his element --
and on his heels. Asked by the students to define ''systematic oppression,'' he
said, ''I'll give you an answer, and I'm sure it will be a wrong answer.''
Pressed further, he said, ''Systematic oppression is because you don't believe
that you have the equal opportunity for success.''

The students erupted in anger. As Wolfe walked away, a student yelled: ''Did you
just blame us for systematic oppression, Tim Wolfe? Did you just blame black
students?''

Jade posted that video on Friday night. By Saturday night, most of her Twitter
energy was devoted to spreading the word that black members of the football team
had joined the protest.

''So proud of our young black men!!'' she tweeted. ''They are really stepping
up.''

And indeed they were. Which brings me to my second point. It turns out that the
football players had something the other protesters didn't: power. There wasn't
the slightest hint that Wolfe was considering resigning -- until the football
players got involved. Schwarz, the economist, told me that it was easy for the
university administration to ignore the protesters because they were members of
minorities and because they were young. But, he added, ''The one place where
young minority voices have economic power is sports.''

As readers of my old Op-Ed column well know, I have long contended that the
players in the revenue-producing sports -- college football and men's basketball
-- are being terribly exploited by College Sports Inc. There are many players
who feel that way, too, and who believe they deserve payment for the work they
do beyond the cost of attending college. But they've always felt powerless to
bring that about. After all, they are young and full of dreams of playing
professionally -- dreams that they fear might be dashed if they were to become
involved in a strike or a protest.

And they are susceptible to pressure. In January 2014, when Kain Colter, the
former Northwestern University quarterback, first informed the Wildcats' coach,
Pat Fitzgerald, that the football team was trying to unionize, Fitzgerald said,
''I'm proud of you guys for doing this.'' But Fitzgerald soon changed his tune
and made it clear to the players that he viewed a vote for the union as a
personal betrayal. At Missouri, Gary Pinkel, the football coach (he makes more
than $4 million a year, by the way) openly supported his striking athletes. That
was easy to do with the next game a week away and the team, at 4-5, unlikely to
make a major bowl. How supportive would he have remained as we got toward
Saturday?

That's why I have never considered it realistic that, for instance, college
basketball players might one day boycott the Final Four to force the system to
change. Or at least that's what I thought until this weekend. One wonders what
athletes at other universities are thinking, now that they've seen a football
team take down a university president in 36 hours.

''It is a monumental step,'' said Sonny Vaccaro, the former Nike marketing
executive who now devotes his life to fighting the N.C.A.A. Vaccaro noted that
the players took their stand not on their own behalf but for a larger cause,
something, as he put it, ''that affects their humanity.''

Schwarz had a similar thought.

''Civil rights matter most,'' he said. ''The next step is for athletes to
realize that their economic lives matter, too, and that this power that they
possess can also be used to push for justice on that front as well.''

Joe Nocera is writing a new Sports Business column that will appear in the print
edition on Saturdays beginning Nov. 21 and at other times throughout the week.
He previously wrote a column for the Op-Ed page. Follow him on Twitter:
@NoceraNYT.

Joe Nocera is writing a new Sports Business column that will appear in the print
edition on Saturdays beginning Nov. 21 and at other times throughout the week.
He previously wrote a column on business for the Op-Ed page. Follow him on
Twitter: @NoceraNYT.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/ncaafootball/missouri-presidents-resign
ation-shows-realm-where-young-minorities-have-power.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Missouri football players J'Mon Moore, left, Ian Simon and
Charles Harris joined students opposed to the school's president, Tim Wolfe, on
Monday. (B10)
 Missouri Athletic Director Mack Rhoades, left, and the Tigers' football coach,
Gary Pinkel, during a Monday news conference. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL BRENNER FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); RESIGNATIONS
(90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STUDENTS &
STUDENT LIFE (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS
(78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%);
STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
(76%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); CHRONOLOGIES
(73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); NETWORK TELEVISION (65%);
TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); STRIKES (58%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (56%);
PARADES & MARCHES (54%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%);
LITIGATION (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%); BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (90%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(57%); SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (53%)

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bears Edge Chargers as Cutler Sets Record

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.F.L. ROUNDUP; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 395 words


Bears tight end Zach Miller made a stunning one-handed grab of a Jay Cutler pass
for a 25-yard go-ahead-touchdown with 3 minutes 19 seconds to play, and Chicago
edged the Chargers, 22-19, in San Diego on Monday night in a matchup of
struggling teams.

The Bears improved to 3-5, and the Chargers fell to 2-7.

Cutler broke the franchise record for touchdown passes when he found Martellus
Bennett for a 1-yard score. Cutler had been tied with the Hall of Famer Sid
Luckman with 137 with the Bears.

Cutler, who began his career with the Broncos, completed 27 of 40 passes for 345
yards. His lone interception was returned 63 yards for a second-quarter
touchdown by Jason Verrett.

Jeremy Langford, who had 72 yards on 18 carries, had a 1-yard rushing touchdown
for the Bears.

San Diego's Philip Rivers completed 26 of 42 passes for 280 yards, including a
14-yard toss to Danny Woodhead that gave the Chargers a 7-0 lead.

PATRIOTS' LEWIS ON I.R. The New England Patriots put running back Dion Lewis on
injured reserve, ending his season a day after a serious injury to his left knee
in a win over Washington.

Lewis had been a big surprise for the undefeated Patriots, with 622 combined
yards rushing and receiving in seven games. He was hurt Sunday after catching a
14-yard screen pass. His left leg buckled as he tried to make a cut.

RAMS PICK UP WELKER The St. Louis Rams signed the 34-year-old free-agent wide
receiver Wes Welker.

Welker was with the Denver Broncos in 2013 and 2014 but has not played this
season. He topped 100 receptions in five of six seasons from 2006 to 2012 but
has a history of concussions.

TWO RECEIVE SUSPENSIONS St. Louis Rams wide receiver Stedman Bailey has been
suspended four games for violating the N.F.L.'s substance abuse policy, and
Denver cornerback Aqib Talib was given a one-game ban for poking Indianapolis
Colts tight end Dwayne Allen in his right eye on Sunday.

Rams Coach Jeff Fisher said that he was "very, very disappointed'' in Bailey and
that he had had "numerous conversations" with him.

Bailey served a two-game suspension for performance-enhancing drugs last season.

Talib was penalized for unnecessary roughness late in a loss at Indianapolis
that knocked the Broncos from the ranks of the unbeaten. He poked two fingers
into Allen's face mask after Allen and Von Miller were shouting and shoving
after a play.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/football/knee-injury-ends-year-for-vers
atile-patriots-running-back.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); DRUGS IN SPORTS
(76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); SPORTS INJURIES (71%); CONCUSSIONS (71%); BRAIN
INJURIES (66%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (66%); DRUG POLICY (61%); SUBSTANCE
ABUSE (61%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BEARS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (83%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); DENVER, CO, USA (71%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (66%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); COLORADO, USA (71%); INDIANA,
USA (66%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Teenager's Acts of Kindness Are Revealed to His Parents, as He Is Laid to Rest

BYLINE: By TATIANA SCHLOSSBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 670 words


They knew that their son, Miles Kirkland Thomas, had used his time and talents
to be supportive to others. They knew he made the varsity football team as a
freshman. He volunteered with an organization called Health for Youths at a
local police precinct house. He always saw the good in people.

But his parents, Jamar Thomas, 46, and Tanza Kirkland, 57, did not know just how
good he was until his funeral last year, when friends, fellow students and
people from their community on Staten Island told them what Miles had done for
them: He had helped them to stay in school, or get up the courage to try out for
the football team, or pass their toughest classes.

''He became much more than I ever would have dreamed that he would,'' Mr. Thomas
said.

Miles, 16, died just before the start of his junior year at Curtis High School
on Staten Island, during a football practice on Sept. 1, 2014. The day was
particularly hot, and Miles collapsed. He was taken to Richmond University
Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead.

His teammates were shocked. ''Miles was in the best shape of any of us,'' said
Shakaun Smith, who was a senior on the team.

His family later learned that Miles had cardiomyopathy, or an enlarged heart.
His parents said he had never been sick -- he was always working out -- and
though he was big, and weighed around 290 pounds, he had never had any heart
trouble.

When their son died suddenly, Mr. Thomas and Ms. Kirkland were unprepared for
the trauma and sadness. They were also unprepared for the cost of his funeral.

Mr. Thomas works as a licensed practical nurse, earning around $25 an hour.
Though Ms. Kirkland recently completed her degree to become a medical assistant,
and is currently doing a so-called externship, she has no income. They have four
other children -- Miles was their youngest -- and their rent is $665.

The cost of Miles's funeral and burial was $1,000. It was paid by the Children's
Aid Society, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest
Cases Fund. The society is a private welfare organization and also runs a
community school at Curtis High School.

Mr. Thomas and Ms. Kirkland could not believe how many people showed up at their
son's funeral at Shiloh A.M.E. Zion Church on Staten Island.

''It was a huge service,'' she said. ''So many people were there that they
couldn't fit in the church.''

It was at his funeral and afterward that they learned more about their son.

Ms. Kirkland said she heard from teenagers about how many lives Miles had
touched. She said that so much of the support he had provided for others took
place on Facebook and other social media platforms, so it had not been plain for
her and her husband to see.

''A teenage girl who wanted to play basketball, Miles told her to get off the
street, go back to school and follow your dream,'' Ms. Kirkland said.

Another young woman who was in a nursing class with Miles and struggling with
her grades told Ms. Kirkland that he had never let her give up. ''Whatever it is
you've got to do, we'll do it together,'' Miles told her.

Another student told Ms. Kirkland, ''I wouldn't be the person I am today without
your son.''

His parents have tried to make something meaningful of his death. They have
started a program for students to have heart screenings at Curtis High School,
to prevent other young people from allowing a condition to go untreated.

Of the program and the other charitable endeavors she is trying to start in
Miles's honor, Ms. Kirkland said, ''Miles lost his life to save a life, to save
a few lives, a lot of lives, and we continue to go forward.''

Ms. Kirkland and Mr. Thomas said they wished they had been able to fully
appreciate their son while he was alive. But they said they got some measure of
comfort knowing what a good person he was, and that he had taken their lessons
as parents to heart.

''What he represented and kept alive for other teenagers to see shows me that
there are good people in this world,'' Ms. Kirkland said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/nyregion/a-teenage-sons-caring-nature-revealed
-as-he-is-laid-to-rest.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tanza Kirkland at a service last month honoring her son, Miles
Kirkland Thomas, who died during a football practice in 2014. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
BRYAN THOMAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: How to Help: Checks payable to The
New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to: P.O. Box 5193 New York, N.Y.
10087 All donations are acknowledged
 special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency
participating in the annual campaign should be written to and mailed to the
agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285
Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW
YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND
QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 THE CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 711
Third Avenue, Suite 700 New York, N.Y. 10017 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW
YORK 633 Third Avenue, 10th Floor New York, N.Y. 10017 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT
WELFARE AGENCIES 40 Broad Street, 5th Floor New York, N.Y. 10004 UJA-FEDERATION
OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100
Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at 800-381-0075 or online at
nytneediestcases.com. For instructions on how to donate stock, call 212-556-1137
or fax 757- 628-2148. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek
contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The New York Times
Company pays for all administrative costs of the Fund, so every dollar donated
to the fund goes directly to serve those in need. The New York Times Neediest
Cases Fund has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a
not-for-profit public charity under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code. Contributions to the Neediest Cases Fund are tax-deductible to the extent
permitted by law. Federal Identification Number: 13-6066063. A copy of the
Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial report may be obtained, upon
request, from the Fund or from the New York State Attorney General's Charities
Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York, New York 10271. To delay may
mean to forget.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); SCHOOL SPORTS
(90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS
(89%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SPORTS
INSTRUCTION (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (77%); POLICE
FORCES (72%); HEART DISEASE (70%); NURSES & NURSING (67%); CARDIOVASCULAR
DISEASE (65%); CHILD WELFARE (61%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

As Missouri Activists Block Journalists, a Divide Over 'Respect' and Rights

BYLINE: By AUSTIN HUGUELET and DANIEL VICTOR; Austin Huguelet reported from
Columbia, and Daniel Victor from New York.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 797 words


COLUMBIA, Mo. -- A video that showed University of Missouri protesters
restricting a student photographer's access to a public area of campus on Monday
ignited discussions about press freedom.

Tim Tai, a student photographer on freelance assignment for ESPN, was trying to
take photos of a small tent city that protesters had created on a campus quad.
Concerned Student 1950, an activist group that formed to push for increased
awareness and action around racial issues on campus, did not want reporters near
the encampment.

Protesters blocked Mr. Tai's view and argued with him, eventually pushing him
away. At one point, they chanted, ''Hey hey, ho ho, reporters have got to go.''

''I am documenting this for a national news organization,'' Mr. Tai told the
protesters, adding that ''the First Amendment protects your right to be here and
mine.''

The protesters accused him of acting unethically and disregarding their requests
for privacy.

''What is so hard about respecting our wishes?'' one protester asked.

''Because I have a job to do,'' Mr. Tai answered. That elicited a retort: ''We
don't care about your job.''

[Video:  Watch on YouTube.]

As the video nears its end, the person taking the video, Mark Schierbecker,
emerged from the scrum and approached a woman, later identified as an assistant
professor of mass media, Melissa Click, close to the tents. When he revealed
that he was a journalist, Ms. Click appeared to grab at his camera.

She then yelled, ''Who wants to help me get this reporter out of here? I need
some muscle over here.''

At another point in the video, Mr. Tai was also challenged by a university
employee. Janna Basler, the director of Greek life and leadership on campus,
approached Mr. Tai and, spreading her arms out, demanded that he ''back off.''

As he tried to defend his right to be there, Ms. Basler explained, ''You are
infringing on what they need right now, which is to be alone.''

Ms. Basler and Ms. Click could not be reached for comment.

Months of protests over the University of Missouri administration's response to
racial tensions and other issues led the president of the university system,
Timothy M. Wolfe, and the chancellor of the flagship campus in Columbia, R.
Bowen Loftin, to step down on Monday. Demonstrators gathered at the heart of the
campus broke into cheers with the news.

Mr. Tai said in an interview on Monday that he tried to explain that he had a
right to be there.

''We're documenting historic events with our photographs, and when people are
crying and hugging when Wolfe resigns, it becomes a personal issue that people
all over the country can connect with,'' he said. ''It's my job to help connect
those people to what's going on.''

On Twitter, students who participated in the protest defended their decision to
create a ''safe space'' without journalists.

There were media personnel who were very hostile toward us when we asked to have
certain spaces respected. -- ConcernedStudent1950 (@CS_1950) November 9, 2015

It's typically white media who don't understand the importance of respecting
black spaces. -- ConcernedStudent1950 (@CS_1950) November 9, 2015

If you have a problem with us wanting to have our spaces that we create
respected, leave! -- ConcernedStudent1950 (@CS_1950) November 9, 2015

Black people and our true allies, we love you and will continue to fight. --
ConcernedStudent1950 (@CS_1950) November 9, 2015

We truly appreciate having our story told, but this movement isn't for you. --
ConcernedStudent1950 (@CS_1950) November 9, 2015

The campsite is inclusive of all identities has it's always been, but it was
created by black students! -- ConcernedStudent1950 (@CS_1950) November 10, 2015

We ask for no media in the parameters so the place where people live,
fellowship, & sleep can be protected from twisted insincere narratives --
ConcernedStudent1950 (@CS_1950) November 10, 2015

White, black, and all other ethnicities have been able to converse and build
from fellowshipping at the camp site. That isn't for your story --
ConcernedStudent1950 (@CS_1950) November 10, 2015

As the video circulated online, Mr. Tai, who won an award in June for Best
Single Photograph in an college journalism awards program, received widespread
support, much of it from members of the news media.

Very impressed with how @nonorganical handled himself while being intimidated.
In hostile times like this it'd be hard not to give in & walk -- Ron Davis
(@bigRONDO74) November 10, 2015

Thank you for both standing your ground and doing it in a respectful way today
@nonorganical -- Christine Jackson (@Cjax1694) November 9, 2015

Wow. Didn't mean to become part of the story. Just trying to do my job. Thanks
everyone for the support. -- Tim Tai (@nonorganical) November 10, 2015




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/university-missouri-protesters-block-journa
lists-press-freedom.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS
(90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); WRITERS (89%);
FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); INTERVIEWS
(78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%);
ETHICS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (84%)

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Russia Says Stalled Arms Deal With Iran Is Signed and Active

BYLINE: By IVAN NECHEPURENKO

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 438 words


MOSCOW -- Russia's most senior arms executive said Monday that a contract to
supply Iran with powerful S-300 air defense missiles was now active. But with no
delivery date or any other details, the announcement seemed aimed more at
warding off an Iranian lawsuit than a major step toward delivery of the weapon
system.

Sergei V. Chemezov, Russia's chief arms trade executive, made the announcement
at an air show in Dubai, Russian news agencies reported.

''The contract to deliver the S-300 was not only signed by both sides, but has
already come into force,'' Mr. Chemezov was quoted as saying by the RIA Novosti
news agency.

The initial contract to deliver the weapons was signed in 2007, before the
current international arms embargo against Iran was established. But the
contract was canceled in 2010 by Dmitri A. Medvedev, then the president of
Russia, under pressure from the United States and Israel, though the Kremlin
portrayed it as an act of good will.

In response, Iran filed a lawsuit claiming breach of contract that could cost
Moscow as much as five times the $800 million value of the original deal.
President Vladimir V. Putin reversed Mr. Medvedev's decision in April, as a
nuclear deal between Iran and the world powers began to appear likely. But the
system still has not been delivered.

In an apparent attempt to avoid the stiff fines, Russia has repeatedly claimed
that delivery was imminent but failed to follow through, leading some analysts
to conclude that it was just a stalling tactic.

The hitch, military experts say, is that Russia wants to keep the unfulfilled
contract as a bargaining chip in its relations with the West, perhaps with an
eye to ending economic sanctions imposed over its actions in Ukraine.

''Russia is trying to use this contract as a tool to pressure the West, so there
is a continuous bargaining about it between Moscow, Tehran and other capitals,''
said Aleksander M. Golts, an independent military analyst in Moscow.

It also remains unclear what specific model of the sophisticated system is to be
delivered. Iran wants a more advanced version than Russia wants to supply,
military analysts say. Despite being classified as defensive in nature, the
S-300 could be used to defend Iran's nuclear sites, even though that threat has
diminished with the signing of the nuclear pact in July.

Apart from the arms deliveries, Russia aims to sell Iran its expertise in
expanding the country's nuclear energy program.

Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: European Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/europe/russia-says-stalled-arms-deal-wit
h-iran-is-signed-and-active.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CONTRACTS &
BIDS (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); CONTRACTS LAW (78%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%);
2015 IRAN NUCLEAR AGREEMENT (78%); ARMS EMBARGOES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%);
EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (73%);
NEWS BRIEFS (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (65%); FINES & PENALTIES (54%); TREATIES &
AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%)

STATE: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (77%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UKRAINE
(79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); EUROPE
(79%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In a Film, Two Migrants Speak for Many

BYLINE: By REBECCA APPEL

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words


LONDON -- As Europe faces its largest migrant crisis since World War II -- more
than 780,000 people from the Middle East and Africa have arrived this year,
according to the United Nations' refugee agency -- it can be easy to forget that
there is a story behind each decision to attempt the difficult journey.

There could hardly be a more apt moment for the release, in Europe this fall and
winter and in the United States next week, of ''Mediterranea,'' the first
full-length feature film by the writer-director Jonas Carpignano.

The documentary-style film is a snapshot of two men -- Ayiva, played by Koudous
Seihon, and Abas (Alassane Sy) -- who travel from Burkina Faso in West Africa to
Rosarno in Italy's southern Calabria region, seeking better lives. A composite
of many migrant experiences, ''Mediterranea'' grew from Mr. Carpignano's
friendship with Mr. Seihon, 29, and was inspired by Mr. Seihon's life.

Although the film focuses on economic migrants who left their countries before
the current influx, not refugees fleeing war, the timing of its message is
remarkable. It is sure to resonate strongly as the crisis broadens on a
continent that, Mr. Carpignano said, needs greater ''compassion for people
trying to get out of a dangerous situation.''

Ayiva and Abas are in Algeria as the film opens, and their onward journey with a
few dozen men and women seesaws between the surreal and the horrific. They face
bandits in the North African desert, and in Libya their handlers abandon them to
captain their own boat to Europe. After a harrowing ocean crossing, Ayiva and
Abas reach Italy, though others in their group do not survive. The rest of the
film traces their precarious existence in Calabria.

Though ''Mediterranea'' is sensitive to its protagonists, no one is idealized.
Arriving in Rosarno with no money, Ayiva resorts to theft. The men find jobs as
laborers in the Mafia-controlled agriculture sector, but Abas grows violent,
refusing to tolerate the pervasive wage exploitation or the indignities of life
in rat-infested makeshift villages.

''Mediterranea'' was well-received at the Cannes International Film Festival in
May, with critics praising the way it humanized a subject that had already
become a seemingly endless daily account of tragedy. ''If a movie as rich and
understanding as 'Mediterranea' suddenly appeared every time we read about a
difficult issue,'' Jordan Hoffman wrote in The Guardian, ''maybe all of the
world's problems could be solved.''

Mr. Carpignano has been nominated for a Gotham Independent Film Award for best
breakthrough director (the winner is to be announced on Nov. 30), and Mr.
Seihon's performance received a special mention last month at the Zurich Film
Festival. ''Mediterranea'' opened the Stockholm Film Festival on Tuesday, and on
Wednesday it will be screened in several European cities, including Brussels;
Paris; and Seville, Spain, as part of the European Parliament's Lux Film Prize
competition.

For Mr. Carpignano, 31, the sense of urgency and the acute awareness of the
racism faced by migrants in Europe were hardly new concepts. Mr. Carpignano,
whose mother is African-American and whose father is Italian, grew up in New
York and Rome and has long been interested in the black experience in Italy.

After studying film at Wesleyan University, Mr. Carpignano worked as a
production assistant on ''Miracle at St. Anna,'' Spike Lee's 2008 World War II
drama. He was also an assistant director on ''Beasts of the Southern Wild,''
directed by Benh Zeitlin, with whom he attended Wesleyan. (Mr. Zeitlin, in turn,
wrote the music for ''Mediterranea,'' with the composer Dan Romer.)

In January 2010, riots by African immigrants in Rosarno brought Italy's
deepening racial tensions into the open. Mr. Carpignano immediately headed to
Calabria to make a short film based on the riots. It ''felt like the first time
Italy's African population had spoken for themselves,'' he said.

But Mr. Carpignano's attempts to connect were met with skepticism; he faced
greater mistrust when he returned that summer. By then, the media circus had
moved on, and many migrants felt abandoned.

Mr. Carpignano stayed in Calabria, and after several months people started
opening up. Among them was Mr. Seihon, to whom Mr. Carpignano was drawn after
seeing him lead a march commemorating the anniversary of the riots. Mr.
Carpignano asked Mr. Seihon to star in his short film -- and he refused.
Eventually, Mr. Seihon accepted. ''I understood he wasn't going to show us in a
bad light,'' he said. They became roommates and best friends; they still live
together in Gioia Tauro, a port city next to Rosarno.

That short movie, ''A Chjàna,'' which follows Ayiva during the riots, won the
Controcampo award for best short film at the 2011 Venice Film Festival. A
subsequent short, ''A Ciambra,'' about a Roma boy involved with the Mafia, won
the Discovery Prize at Cannes Critics' Week in 2014.

Almost immediately after starting ''A Chjàna,'' Mr. Carpignano knew he wanted to
make a feature that drew on Mr. Seihon's life story. In 2006, after his
daughter's birth, Mr. Seihon left his family in Burkina Faso, seeking work
elsewhere in Africa to support them. But Europe ''was always the paradise,'' he
said. Two years later, he decided to try the sea journey from Libya and paid a
trafficker for a place on a boat. But the captain quit shortly before the
scheduled crossing. Mr. Seihon took over and, after three days of lessons with
the boat's Libyan owner, steered himself and 65 other migrants to southern
Italy. In Calabria, he picked fruit; later Mr. Seihon, who speaks several
African dialects, worked as an interpreter with an Italian migrant association.
Today he is a migrant-rights advocate.

''Meeting Koudous, I thought, this one odyssey is grander than the riots,'' Mr.
Carpignano said. ''I felt if he could be brought to an audience,'' he added,
people could ''begin to move beyond the label of the 'African immigrant' and
start seeing individuals.''

By the time he started shooting ''Mediterranea'' last year, Mr. Carpignano had
strong ties in Rosarno. The film, which cost about 1 million euros to make,
about $1.1 million, was financed by grants from the San Francisco Film Society,
the Doha Film Institute and the nonprofit Cinereach, and by money from a handful
of private investors and production companies.

In ''Mediterranea,'' only Abas's character is played by a professional actor.
Mr. Carpignano's decision to cast Rosarno locals reflected his desire to involve
''as many people who have lived this story as possible,'' he said.

Today, overt antimigrant violence in Rosarno has declined, Mr. Seihon said. But
if other regions in Europe have emerged as flash points, Mr. Seihon and Mr.
Carpignano see little improvement in conditions for Calabria's migrants. Mr.
Seihon hopes ''Mediterranea'' will remind viewers that their exploitation is
real, and continuing.

In one respect, though, Mr. Carpignano is somewhat optimistic about his adopted
hometown. ''People know Africans live here now,'' he said, ''that there will be
black faces in Rosarno forever.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/movies/in-mediterranea-two-migrants-speak-for-
many.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Koudous Seihon, left, and Alassane Sy in ''Mediterranea,''
written and directed by Jonas Carpignano. (C1)
 A scene from ''Mediterranea,'' a film about migrants who take a harrowing
journey from West Africa to Italy to seek a better life. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HAUT ET
COURT DISTRIBUTION) (C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (90%); EUROPEAN MIGRANT CRISIS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%);
FILM (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); WRITERS (77%); MOVIE REVIEWS (75%); DRAMA
LITERATURE (75%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%);
RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (70%); DOCUMENTARY
FILMS (70%); FILM FESTIVALS (70%); ORGANIZED CRIME (64%); FESTIVALS (60%);
AGRICULTURE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); AFRICA (94%); ITALY (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); MIDDLE
EAST (92%); BURKINA FASO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%);
ALGERIA (79%); LIBYA (79%); JORDAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Brookie Maxwell, 59, an Artist and Curator

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 689 words


Brookie Maxwell, a painter, sculptor and curator who immersed herself in social
causes and viewed art as a spiritual haven for homeless children, died on
Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 59.

The cause was ovarian cancer, her son, Ellis Dolin Maxwell, said.

A daughter of William Maxwell, the novelist and editor of literary luminaries at
The New Yorker, Ms. Maxwell founded the Creative Arts Workshops in 1986 for
children in New York's welfare hotels and homeless shelters.

In 1999, she opened Gallery 138, at 138 West 17th Street in Chelsea, which
helped start the careers of artists. She created her own public art
installations and produced group exhibitions on subjects such as Hurricane
Katrina and the Rwandan genocide.

Ms. Maxwell also founded a visual and conversational art project with veterans
returning from Iraq and Afghanistan to bridge the gap between soldiers and
civilians. She was working on the project, titled ''Coming Home: Journey,
Community and Dialog,'' at her death.

''She believed that art was meant to heal and inspire and to bring people
together and to express humanity,'' Mr. Maxwell said.

Emily Brooke Maxwell was born on Oct. 15, 1956, in Manhattan. Her father worked
at The New Yorker for four decades. Her mother, the former Emily Noyes, was an
artist, poet and teacher who also wrote for the magazine.

''Many American readers discovered Maxwell in the mid-1980s when Godine Press
revived his work in elegant paperback editions graced by the cover art of his
younger daughter, Brookie,'' Barbara Burkhardt wrote in 2005 in ''William
Maxwell: A Literary Life.''

A graduate of the School of Visual Arts in New York City, she also studied at
the Institute of African Studies at Columbia and at the John F. Kennedy School
of Government at Harvard.

In addition to her son, she is survived by her sister, Katharine Aulia Maxwell.
Her marriage to Christopher Dolin ended in divorce.

Ms. Maxwell first worked as a magazine illustrator and designer and later
designed murals and sculptures for Bellevue Hospital Center, the Port Authority
of New York and New Jersey and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, while
directing the Creative Arts Workshops.

She was inspired by volunteering on weekends at summer camp art workshops, her
son recalled. Her involvement, he said, ''had a huge impact on the kids because
someone came along and was interested in what they had to say.''

Among the workshops' early projects was a 125-foot mural called ''Calle de
Suenos'' -- street of dreams -- on the side of the Triborough Post Office at
East 124th Street, between Lexington and Third Avenues, in East Harlem. The
mural was a collaboration -- involving 75 people -- of 5- to 15-year-olds and
accomplished artists, including Christo and Jeanne-Claude, his wife.

Covering 5,000 square feet, the mural depicted a wishful cityscape of children
being driven to school in a red limousine, police barricades that said ''Go
Right Ahead,'' a cameo by the Wizard of Oz and an absence of security guards.

''I asked them to start drawing and writing about what would be on their dream
street,'' Ms. Maxwell said. ''The only rules were 'no guns, no killing, no
drugs.' ''

Her protégés also built a 25-foot-high statue on an adjacent city-owned vacant
lot, a compilation of bed coils of curly hair, a shield of flags symbolizing
peace and a solar-powered eye. But the work was demolished a year later by the
city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development in an apparent case of
bureaucratic confusion.

Ms. Maxwell bought a loft on West 17th Street, near Seventh Avenue, and
installed a gallery on the premises. There, for a show commemorating the Supreme
Court's decision desegregating public schools in Brown v. Board of Education,
the artist Satch Hoyt created a life-size cast-sugar bust of Thurgood Marshall,
who argued the case before the court and later became an associate justice.

During one week, Mr. Hoyt made several models and stored them in the
refrigerator.

''Ellis's friends would come over,'' Ms. Maxwell recalled, ''and ask, 'Can I
lick Thurgood Marshall's face again?' ''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/nyregion/brookie-maxwell-an-artist-and-curator
-dies-at-59.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brookie Maxwell, at her Chelsea gallery in 2009, helped start
the careers of artists and immersed herself in social causes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); CHILDREN (90%); VISUAL ARTS (90%); PAINTING
(90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); WRITERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%);
LITERATURE (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); TEMPORARY
SHELTERS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); HUMANITIES &
SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%);
FICTION LITERATURE (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (73%);
UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); HURRICANES (70%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%);
ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (65%); PORT AUTHORITIES (60%); OVARIAN CANCER (57%);
CANCER (57%); HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); HURRICANE KATRINA (54%); GENOCIDE (54%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%);
SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RWANDA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (76%); IRAQ (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Market Backtracks, Awaiting Higher Rates

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 454 words


The stock market stumbled Monday as investors worried that the global economy
could be slowing just as last week's blockbuster United States jobs report
appeared to open the way to the first rate increase from the Federal Reserve in
nearly a decade. It was the first notable decline in the market in six weeks.

The Dow Jones industrial average lost 179.85 points, or 1 percent, to 17,730.48,
slipping back into negative territory for the year. The Standard & Poor's
500-stock index lost 20.62 points, or 1 percent, to 2,078.58, while the Nasdaq
composite fell 51.82 points, or 1 percent, to 5,095.30.

Investors continued to assess October's unexpectedly strong jobs report, which
greatly raised expectations that the Fed would raise short-term interest rates,
which have been near zero since the 2008 financial crisis.

The Labor Department said employers created 271,000 jobs last month, exceeding
even the most bullish of forecasts. The unemployment rate also dropped a notch
to 5 percent, the lowest in seven years. The surprising strength could encourage
the Fed to finally start to return interest rates to normal levels.

''This all shows how Friday's employment report possibly changed the game,''
John Briggs, head of fixed-income strategy at RBS, wrote in a note to investors.

The possibility of higher interest rates continued to push investors to
reposition their portfolios. Even in a declining stock market, investors also
sold government bonds. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.35
percent, up slightly from 2.32 percent Friday and well above the 2.23 percent
return on Thursday.

Global stocks also reacted to news out of China, whose imports plunged 18.8
percent in October compared with a year ago, dimming hopes for an economic
rebound this quarter. Exports fell 6.9 percent in a sign of weak global demand.

''We've known about China's issues for a while now, but this will likely lead to
the government doing more stimulus,'' said Quincy Krosby, market strategist with
Prudential Financial.

Among individual stocks, the travel site Priceline fell $138.75, or 9.6 percent,
to $1,311.15 after its outlook for the fourth quarter, a typically strong
period, came up short of analysts' expectations.

Stock in Mallinckrodt, a drug maker, fell $11.88, or 17 percent, to $58.01 after
the short-selling firm Citron Research warned that it might face issues similar
to those at Valeant Pharmaceuticals. Citron this year ran a report on Valeant,
whose stock has fallen by two-thirds since the summer.

American crude oil fell 42 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $43.87 a barrel on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, fell 23
cents to $47.19 a barrel in London.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/daily-stock-market-activity.html

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source:
The Bond Buyer)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at
1-minute intervals on Monday. (Source: Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%);
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%);
STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); OUTPUT & DEMAND (78%); TREASURY
DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING
(78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%);
ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES
(77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH
(73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%);
CRUDE OIL PRICES (61%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%)

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (52%); VALEANT PHARMACEUTICALS INTERNATIONAL
INC (51%); ARDEA BIOSCIENCES INC (51%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

TICKER: PRU (NYSE) (52%); VRX (TSX) (51%); VRX (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY &
CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS
(52%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (52%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, &
CASUALTY INSURANCE (52%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%); NAICS325412
PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL &
BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%);
SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES &
COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Derailed Blue-Collar Lives, With Zingers

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 980 words


So you're driving along through what you think is a drearily familiar landscape,
when suddenly there's a bend in the road. All at once, in a single click of
perception, everything looks slightly but revealingly different, and not just
where you are now, but also where you've been. The view in the rearview mirror
has changed.

That's the route taken by John Pollono in ''Lost Girls,'' the ambling and
ultimately quite moving comic drama that opened on Monday night at the Lucille
Lortel Theater. Mr. Pollono, an actor and writer whose previous plays include
the dark teaser ''Small Engine Repair,'' is a deft practitioner of the sort of
twist-in-the-tale narratives that are mostly associated with short-story writers
of earlier eras, like O. Henry and W. Somerset Maugham.

Such compact fictions tend to work better on the page than on the stage, since
theatergoers can become impatient with expositional setups for reveals they may
not know are coming. And the long opening scene of ''Lost Girls,'' an MCC
production directed by Jo Bonney and starring a tough-as-beef-jerky Piper
Perabo, is entertaining enough but hardly grips the attention.

In it, we find Maggie (Ms. Perabo), a clerk in an outlet store, and her mother,
Linda (a companionably trashy Tasha Lawrence), swapping foul-mouthed insults as
a snowstorm rages outside the home they share in Manchester, N.H. Mr. Pollono
has visited this town -- and some similarly thwarted inhabitants -- before in
''Small Engine Repair'' (which Ms. Bonney directed for MCC). But the
zinger-stoked dialogue, and the amiably prickly atmosphere of loving blue-collar
family members cohabiting in dead-end domesticity, also suggest an R-rated
episode of ''Roseanne.''

That's not meant as a dis on ''Roseanne,'' whose run in the 1980s and '90s was
filled with classic paradigms of the half-hour television comedy. But we expect
something more original from a play that's going to stretch into a full 90
minutes. Even when we learn that Maggie's car is missing and her teenage
daughter hasn't shown up for school that day, shortly before the Christmas
holidays, the prevailing sensibility still feels sitcom-dram formulaic.

Enter Maggie's ex-husband, Lou (Ebon Moss-Bachrach), a soft-centered cop, and
his wife, Penny (Meghann Fahy), a perky born-again Christian, filled with
greeting card wisdom. As you might expect, their arrival prompts a new volley of
barbs among people with all sorts of reasons to resent one another. What holds
our interest is the bedrock of bitterness on which Ms. Perabo has built her
character, and the piquant hints of a fully shared, ambivalent past between
Maggie and Lou.

Then the scene changes, from the makeshift coziness of Maggie's living room to
the shabby sterility of a cheap motel room. (Richard Hoover did the
appropriately standard-issue sets.) And there we find a high-school-age girl and
boy (Lizzy DeClement and Josh Green), who have evidently run away from home in a
stolen family car during that raging snowstorm.

The kids seem to share, at least in part, a cynical acceptance of shrunken,
claustrophobic lives with the adult characters we've already met. But being a
lot younger than Maggie and company, they also have the luminous vibrancy of
still lingering hopes. And as played with sweet ingenuousness by Mr. Green and
premature, self-lacerating jadedness by Ms. DeClement (an actress to keep your
eye on), these two are an irresistibly mismatched, made-for-each-other couple.

The rest of ''Lost Girls'' unfolds as a counterpoint between bright, youthful
expectations and the gray resignation of characters who in their 30s have
already slid into middle age. The play's title starts to acquire a deep-blue
aura of predestination.

Maggie, we learn, belongs to a third generation of women who have seen their
lives derailed by early pregnancies, followed by serial self-sabotaging
relationships. And there may be a part of you -- the part that gets moist-eyed
reading A. E. Housman's ''To an Athlete Dying Young'' -- that thinks it might be
better if those runaway teenagers didn't survive their dangerous, icy trip. Ms.
DeClement's character knows whereof she speaks when she asks with dawning alarm,
''What if it never gets any better than this?''

A sentimental view of life as a cul-de-sac hasn't been virgin territory in world
drama at least since Chekhov's mopey Russians first hit the stage. And nothing
in Mr. Pollono's script -- including that perspective-changing twist I mentioned
earlier -- adds much that's new to what became the default sensibility of
naturalistic modern literature.

But Mr. Pollono invests his characters with such affectionate observational
detail that he makes us like them, too. Neither he nor Ms. Bonney's cast
condescend to them, either -- not even Ms. Fahy, whose peppy and cliché-laden
Penny would seem designed for target practice. Mr. Moss-Bachrach is so
self-effacingly right in his part that it's easy to overlook how effortlessly
good he is.

As generational bookends of a feminine species of a particular class and place,
Ms. Perabo and Ms. DeClement are excellent. Best known for her starring role on
television's ''Covert Affairs,'' Ms. Perabo has the harder part to play. Her
Maggie has reached a point where internalized hostility has nearly sucked her
dry, and Ms. Perabo shouldn't and doesn't try to charm.

Ms. DeClement has more latitude to seduce the audience. She doesn't push it, but
as a study in evaporating dewiness, she's a guaranteed heartbreaker. The
implicit link between her and Ms. Perabo's characters is enough to allow us to
think that Mr. Pollono's lost girls might possibly, eventually find their way.
Not that they should get their hopes up.

''Lost Girls'' runs through Nov. 29 at the Lucille Lortel Theater, 121
Christopher Street, Manhattan; 866-811-4111, mcctheater­.org. Running time: 1
hour 30 minutes.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/theater/review-in-lost-girls-derailed-blue-col
lar-lives-with-zingers.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lost Girls: Lizzy DeClement, far left, and Josh Green in this
MCC Theater production, which opened Monday at the Lucille Lortel Theater. (C1)
 From left, Piper Perabo, Tasha Lawrence, Ebon Moss-Bachrach and Meghann Fahy in
''Lost Girls,'' written by John Pollono and directed by Jo Bonney. (PHOTOGRAPHS
BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); WRITERS (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES
(75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (69%); TELEVISION
COMEDIES (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); CHRISTMAS (60%)

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%)

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Regina King on Her Emmy Win and This Week's Big 'Leftovers' Scene

BYLINE: By JEN CHANEY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1028 words


This post contains spoilers about ''Lens,'' this week's episode of ''The
Leftovers.''

When she signed on to play Erika Murphy in Season 2 of ''The Leftovers,'' Regina
King knew that information about her character would be conveyed slowly, and not
just for the audience.

She was ''finding things out script by script,'' Ms. King says. ''There aren't
even bread crumbs as to where your character is going to go or what's going to
happen to your family.''

Sunday night's episode revealed some significant information about the
hard-of-hearing doctor and mother of two children, one of whom recently vanished
into thin air. Among other things, viewers learn that Erika had been planning to
leave her husband before Evie, her daughter, disappeared; that tensions between
Erika and her next-door neighbor, Nora Durst are higher than ever; and that
Erika will, under no circumstances, tolerate the sacrifice of a live goat during
a fund-raiser for her daughter and her two missing friends. Ms. King recently
discussed Erika, what it's like to act opposite a goat and some back story about
a milestone in her own life: her Emmy win this year for her supporting role in
the limited series ''American Crime.'' These are edited excerpts from the
conversation.

Q. Since you find out what's happening script by script, is that challenging as
an actor? In this week's episode, Erika says she'd been planning to leave John
and I wondered if you were able to throw hints about that in earlier episodes.

A. I had no idea about that until that episode came. This is the thing: as an
actor you feel like, ''Oh gosh, I wish I had known that because maybe I might
have done something differently in previous scenes.'' But the reality is that
the director knows, the creator knows, and if there was a bad choice you might
have been making, it would have been corrected.

In a lot of instances in this season -- and I don't think they really had the
luxury of doing this the first season because it was the book from beginning to
end -- Damon [Lindelof] said as we were shooting, that it informed him how he
was going to wrap things up for the season. So I think some things, he and
[''The Leftovers'' author] Tom [Perrotta] didn't discover until maybe four or
five episodes in.

Q. The fund-raiser scene, when Jerry brings in the goat, that's a big, emotional
moment for your character and one that unfolded in front of what appeared to be
a lot of extras. What do you remember about shooting that?

A. That by the end of the day, my voice was gone. That's probably the first
thing I remember. The audience was very supportive. It was kind of like being
onstage in a lot of regards, because you are doing this monologue in front of 50
extras. And you're doing it over and over again.

Q. Was the goat always standing there?

A. No, that's one of the things I remember. By the third take, the goat was
like, ''Let's get me the heck out of here.'' He just started kind of running
toward the door. Like: ''Get her away from me!''

Q. How would you characterize the Erika/Nora relationship at this point? Early
in this episode, Nora throws a rock through Erika's window and at the end, after
their big confrontation scene, Erika throws a rock through Nora's. Clearly, it's
become much more adversarial.

A. You know, I'm sure those people that watch ''The Leftovers'' will come up
with so many different reasons why Nora might have thrown the rock through the
window. Damon might have his own reasons why Nora threw the rock through her
window. But to me, I felt like there was something special about Nora being the
one person in their town who's lost her entire family. Then they move away and
here they are next door to these people that, now their daughter is missing.
Some of that specialness that Nora felt that she had -- Erika has taken a little
bit of that shine. As sick as it may sound, that's what I put in my head.

Q. I feel like on another show, that confrontation scene would have ended with
the two of them bonding over the fact that they've both lost children.

A. But not in the world of ''The Leftovers.''

Q. No. Instead it completely divides them.

A. Right, which is shocking as far as the audience [goes] because, like you
said, you expect them at the end to be friends. But there's a part of you that
doesn't mind that [the show] is not doing the typical.

Q. Do you think Evie actually departed?

A. You know, I think that where Erika is, she really doesn't know. To think that
her daughter's been kidnapped and no longer here and -- I hate to say it this
way, but -- murdered, is almost an easier pill to swallow than that she's
disappeared. So I just feel like she's in this purgatory almost.

Q. That's such a charged word to use on a show from the guy who made ''Lost.''

A. [Laughs] Yeah. But you know, to believe one or the other fully is too much.
So I think she doesn't even know what she's hoping for.

Q. I wanted to congratulate you on your recent Emmy win. You seemed surprised
when Taraji P. Henson announced your name. What do you remember about that
moment?

A. I think the most special thing was just being there with Ian, my son. He was
with me when I found out I was nominated and he was with me when I won. So it
was just one of those full-circle moments that, I wouldn't have wanted to share
it with anybody else. I mean, don't get me wrong, it's something I share with
the entire ''American Crime'' cast and crew. But as far as whose right hand is
right there in the moment, his face and looking in his eyes and just the
excitement -- sharing that with him was pretty singular.

Q. What was your reaction to Viola Davis's speech? Obviously it was a big night
for African-American women and her speech was pretty powerful.

A. She's a powerful woman. Her speech matches the performances and the art that
she's shared with us over this time period, even before ''How to Get Away With
Murder.''

I think it was a win for TV, a win for black women, a win for black people -- it
was a win and a special night all around. History was made. It was one of those
moments like: We all kind of got it right today. And I'm still smiling that I'm
a part of it.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/arts/television/regina-king-interview-leftover
s-emmys.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (76%); FUNDRAISING (72%); EMMY AWARDS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Unesco Rejects Membership for Kosovo

BYLINE: By MATTHEW BRUNWASSER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 362 words


BELGRADE, Serbia --  Unesco, the United Nations' cultural agency, narrowly
denied Kosovo membership on Monday, handing a sizable political victory to
Serbia, which had fought a fierce battle against the bid for months.

Kosovo's candidacy was supported by the major Western countries and was seen as
a strategic step toward United Nations membership and full international
recognition for the former Serbian province, which separated in 1999 after an
American-backed NATO bombing campaign that drove out Yugoslav forces.

A majority of members at the agency's general conference in Paris voted for
Kosovo's membership -- 92 to 50, with 29 abstentions. But Unesco rules require a
two-thirds majority to accept a new member state.

''I congratulate the citizens of Serbia who have had the confidence to defend
that which our ancestors have preserved for centuries,'' President Tomislav
Nikolic of Serbia said in a statement. ''This is a just and moral victory under
almost impossible conditions.''

Earlier in the day, a motion by Serbia to delay the vote until the next general
conference in 2017 was rejected 89 to 59. Last month, Unesco's executive
committee recommended extending membership to Kosovo.

There was quiet sadness in the streets of Pristina, the capital, where Kosovars
were hoping to celebrate the membership of a multiethnic Kosovo in the global
cultural organization, said Dren Doli, of the Group for Legal and Political
Studies, a nongovernment policy organization in Pristina, in a telephone
interview.

Lobbying by Serbia, Russia and others against Kosovo's membership, Mr. Doli
said, showed that ''democratic countries and values cannot always determine how
international organizations manage their objectives and expand their reach.''

Mr. Doli said he expected Kosovo to try again to join Unesco at the next general
conference.

Since declaring independence in 2008, Kosovo has been recognized as an
independent state by 109 of 193 United Nations member states and is a member of
the World Bank and International Monetary Fund.

Serbia has fought hard against Kosovo's representation in every international
institution where it has sought membership.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/europe/unesco-rejects-kosovo-membership-
in-a-victory-for-serbia.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%);
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%);
INTERVIEWS (73%); BOMBINGS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION
(94%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

CITY: PRISTINA, KOSOVO (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (90%)

COUNTRY: SERBIA (98%); KOSOVO (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fitzpatrick Likely to Have Thumb Surgery After Game vs. Bills

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 402 words


FLORHAM PARK, N.J. --  Ryan Fitzpatrick has a torn ligament in his left thumb
that only surgery can repair. That surgery, he hinted strongly, is likely to
occur Friday so that he can maximize recovery time before the Jets' next game.

''We'll see,'' Fitzpatrick said, with a laugh. ''You'll probably know something
by Friday.''

Fitzpatrick addressed the status of the thumb on his nonthrowing hand the day
after the CBS reporter Jamie Erdahl reported before the Jets' 28-23 victory
against Jacksonville that he would ''probably'' have the procedure before the
end of the season. She then speculated that it would be Friday, the day after
Buffalo visits MetLife Stadium, so that Fitzpatrick would have nine days to let
the incision heal before the Jets' Nov. 22 game in Houston.

It would not make sense, Fitzpatrick said, to have the surgery any other day
during the season besides Friday. From what he has been told, Fitzpatrick said
waiting too long could complicate the nature of the procedure.

''Obviously, I don't want to miss any time or any games,'' Fitzpatrick said.
''The decision's really going to be based off that.''

Fitzpatrick initially said he was confident that he would wait until after the
season before having his thumb fixed. But his ability to practice all last week
with a padded glove and play Sunday -- and play well, completing 21 of 34 passes
for 272 yards and two touchdowns, with no interceptions -- with a molded brace
changed the calculus.

He said that he did not feel much pain, and that there were only two plays when
he noticed it.

''I was surprised at how little of an issue it was,'' Fitzpatrick said.

Heading into Thursday night's game, Fitzpatrick might actually be one of the
healthier Jets. Their secondary must absorb the absences of safeties Calvin
Pryor and Dion Bailey, who both have high ankle sprains, and, perhaps,
cornerback Antonio Cromartie, who sustained a deep thigh bruise Sunday.

Coach Todd Bowles mentioned Rontez Miles and Ronald Martin, currently on the
practice squad, as potential starters at safety.

The Jets also held tryouts for a new kicker Monday after learning that Nick
Folk, who strained his right quadriceps before Sunday's game, is expected to
miss four to six weeks.

It is unclear whether center Nick Mangold, who left Sunday's game with a
recurrence of the neck injury that sidelined him last week, will be healthy
enough to play.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/football/fitzpatrick-likely-to-have-thu
mb-surgery-after-the-bills-game.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS INJURIES (89%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%);
WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); NECK DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS
(72%)

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO BILLS (84%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Forget Technique (Choreographer's Orders) and Just Be Yourself

BYLINE: By BRIAN SEIBERT

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 465 words



How would you like to be in a show called ''Ballet''? No training is necessary,
though some is allowed. The choreographer is a famous Frenchman, but he won't
help you with your technique, only give you some basic instructions, expecting
you to be yourself. An audience of art connoisseurs will watch and judge.
Interested?

At the Marian Goodman Gallery in Midtown on Friday, 13 men and women who
answered yes to that question performed in Jérôme Bel's ''Ballet (New York).''
Mostly amateurs as dancers, they formed a collective portrait of New York
diversity. Some were young. Some were old. One was in a motorized wheelchair.
All were asked to perform the same tasks.

One by one, they crossed and recrossed the gallery's concrete floor, assigned a
different task for each trip. First, while ballet music played (a Chopin prelude
used in ''Les Sylphides,'' the grand pas de deux music from ''Don Quixote''),
each did his or her idea of pirouettes and a grand jeté. Then they waltzed to
Strauss's ''Blue Danube,'' grabbing one partner for their first pass and
switching to another for the way back. For five minutes, they all improvised at
once, and then, one by one again, everyone attempted Michael Jackson's moonwalk
to the accompaniment of ''Billie Jean.''

The exercise was leveling. Megan LeCrone, a soloist with New York City Ballet,
executed the ballet steps most correctly, though in this context that didn't
make her the best. Her moonwalk in point shoes was more impressive and more in
the spirit of trying something outside her realm of expertise.

Being impressive wasn't the point anyway. If ''Ballet (New York)'' has a point,
it is to let the participants, who do not speak or introduce themselves, reveal
themselves through the tasks. There were weak glimpses of this on Friday in
endearing awkwardness and odd-couple rapport. But while Mr. Bel's direction
could be felt as a potentially liberating absence of judgment, it could also be
sensed, from the casting onward, as a restraining hand, a nudge toward the
ordinary.

''Ballet (New York)'' repeats this weekend at the Martha Graham Studio and next
Thursday in the theater of El Museo del Barrio. At the Goodman Gallery, the work
might have been in conversation with the meticulously staged photographs of Jeff
Wall currently on display. But ''Ballet (New York)'' just doesn't have that much
to say.

''Ballet (New York)'' continues Saturday and Sunday at the Martha Graham Studio
Theater, 55 Bethune Street, and Nov. 19 at El Museo del Barrio, 1230 Fifth
Avenue; 212-680-0569, 15.performa-arts­.org.

''Ballet (New York)'' continues Saturday and Sunday at the Martha Graham Studio
Theater, 55 Bethune Street, Manhattan, and Nov. 19 at El Museo del Barrio, 1230
Fifth Avenue; 212-680-0569, 15.performa-arts­.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/arts/dance/review-in-ballet-new-york-nondancer
s-try-their-jetes.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ballet (New York): Megan LeCrone, center stage, at the Marian
Goodman Gallery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAULA COURT/PERFORMA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); BALLET
(90%); THEATER (89%); MUSIC (78%); DANCERS (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%);
WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JACKSON (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

ISIS Ally in Egypt Emerges as Key Suspect in Jet Crash

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Amina Ismail contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1395 words


CAIRO -- Within months of the military takeover here two years ago, a
little-known group calling itself Ansar Beit al-Maqdis managed to penetrate
rings of checkpoints and heavy security to carry out a string of startling
attacks, assassinating a senior police official at his home near here and
blowing up a security headquarters here and in Mansoura, Egypt.

They were inside jobs. The Egyptian authorities concluded that the group had
received crucial advice from two policemen, Lt. Mohamed Eweis and Col. Sameh
el-Azizi, who were among a series of military and security officers the group
eventually recruited.

Now the same group, operating as the Sinai Province of the Islamic State, is the
prime suspect in yet another inside job: British and American officials say they
believe it increasingly likely that the group planted a bomb on the Russian
charter jet that exploded last week in midair over the desert north of Sharm el
Sheikh, Egypt, killing all 224 people aboard.

No government has confirmed that the Sinai Province has taken responsibility.
But the group has eagerly claimed it and others in the Islamic State, also known
as ISIS or ISIL, have celebrated -- positions that reflect drastic changes in
both the Islamic State and the Sinai Province since the Egyptian unit first
pledged its allegiance one year ago. Attacks by the Sinai Province, previously a
mostly Bedouin group that focused mainly on fighting the Egyptian security
forces, have quickly grown in sophistication and bloodshed. If its role in
bringing down the plane is confirmed, the Sinai Province may have even
momentarily surprised and surpassed its vicious parent, and, some analysts said,
risked a broad backlash against the Islamic State itself.

If the militants in the Sinai found an inside man who could help bring down a
Russia-bound jet, ''did the ISIS guys in Syria say, 'Sure, why not? The more
enemies the merrier?' '' asked William McCants, a researcher at the Brookings
Institution and the author of ''The ISIS Apocalypse,'' a study of the group.
''Or are they just celebrating it after the fact, so they don't look out of the
loop on such a major attack?''

The parent group, based in Raqqa, Syria, has much to lose by approving or even
embracing the apparent bombing, he argued. Although supporters of the Islamic
State are calling the jet's crash retribution against Russia for its
intervention in Syria to prop up President Bashar al-Assad, Mr. McCants noted
that the Russians had mostly attacked Western-backed rebel groups that were foes
of the Islamic State.

''Russia has been hitting their enemies for them,'' Mr. McCants argued. ''I
can't imagine the guys in Raqqa want Russia to go all in against them.''

Until now, the Islamic State has focused mainly on local sectarian battles. It
has started wars against two nations, Syria and Iraq. It has linked up with
local groups in Libya, Afghanistan, Nigeria and elsewhere. It has encouraged its
far-flung affiliates and lone individuals inspired by its example to improvise
their own attacks of all kinds against Westerners and their interests.

But its priority on taking and governing territory has until now distinguished
the Islamic State from older groups like Al Qaeda, whose primary strategy was
inflicting enormous casualties on the civilians of a distant foreign power. No
group acting in the Islamic State's name has ever bombed a civilian airplane,
the archetypical terrorist attack of an earlier era.

''This brings to reality our worst fears,'' said Mokhtar Awad, a researcher at
the Center for American Progress who tracks the Egyptian militants, ''that this
group that has the most territory and the most resources and the most power in
jihadist history is now a launching pad for terrorist attacks.''

''This is their way of retaliating,'' he said. ''Terrorism used as a tool of war
-- to try to deter attacks by a foreign power.''

For much of its history, the Sinai Province has focused on local targets,
particularly Egyptian military and security personnel. Its roots date back to
early in the last decade, when a handful of Bedouin returning from universities
on the Egyptian mainland sought to form an ultraconservative Islamist militant
group. Capitalizing on resentment of the Egyptian government, they organized
mainly among their own Sinai tribes and called their movement Monotheism and
Jihad.

But their group formed at the tail end of a broader Islamist insurgency that had
resorted to massacring tourists, an obvious tactic for militants seeking to
cripple the Egyptian economy. The militants carried out a mass shooting in Luxor
in 1997 that killed 64 people and then a series of bombings at Red Sea resorts,
including Sharm el Sheikh, that killed more than 145 people between 2004 and
2006.

The strategy backfired because it alienated millions of Egyptians, particularly
those working in tourism. With the public on their side, the Egyptian security
forces finally crushed the militants, including the group in Sinai.

After the overthrow of President Hosni Mubarak in 2011, the interim military
rulers released scores of political prisoners and seasoned jihadis, and some of
the same Sinai militants then formed Ansar Beit al-Maqdis, or the Partisans of
Jerusalem. They were reportedly joined by Palestinian extremists who had clashed
with Hamas in the Gaza Strip, and by followers of Mohamed al-Zawahri, the
brother of Al Qaeda's leader, Ayman al-Zawahri.

This time the militants took aim at Israel, repeatedly destroying pipelines that
shipped Egyptian natural gas across the border. When President Abdel Fattah
el-Sisi led the military ouster of President Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim
Brotherhood in 2013, the group shifted the focus of its attacks to the Egyptian
security forces.

Ansar Beit al-Maqdis quickly demonstrated proficiency at making bombs, blowing
up a security headquarters in Mansoura, a city in the Nile Delta, in December
2013. Its attacks killed hundreds of soldiers and police officers. Its numbers
expanded to as many as a few thousand members, with cells operating in the Nile
Valley and in the Western desert as well as Sinai, according to Western
diplomats briefed on intelligence reports.

But, apparently mindful of the experience of earlier militants, the group seemed
to try hard to minimize civilian casualties. It often took pains to detonate its
bombs in the middle of the night or on days when buildings were empty.

That began to change last fall, when a faction of the group based in Sinai
decided to pledge allegiance to the Islamic State.

The Sinai group began beheading suspected informants, imitating the Islamic
State's trademark punishment. Its attacks became noticeably more sophisticated
and coordinated, with simultaneous strikes at many locations. Its online media
took on some of the slick polish of its Syrian parent.

Last summer, the group, adapting the Islamic State's territorial ambitions,
seized control of the North Sinai town of Sheikh Zuwaid, forcing the Egyptian
military to call in airstrikes to regain control.

The militants used a guided missile to hit an Egyptian naval ship in the
Mediterranean Sea. They claimed responsibility for bombing the Italian consulate
in Cairo. And the Sinai Province released online an Islamic State-like video of
its militants beheading a kidnapped Croatian employee of a French energy
company. It was the first time the group had targeted a foreigner that way, and
it said the killing was punishment for Croatia's ''participation'' in the war
against the parent group.

With the bombing of the Russian charter jet, the Sinai Province stands to vault
ahead in jihadi prestige and recruitment. But some analysts now wonder if the
Egyptian offshoot has taken the Islamic State's ideology of violence against its
enemies even further than its leaders envisioned, multiplying its powerful
enemies. ''You can't just say 'let a thousand bloody flowers bloom' without some
of the blood splattering back at you,'' Mr. McCants said.

So far, though, the Islamic State seems enthusiastic. ''We thank our heroes and
lions in the North Sinai,'' a man standing in the rubble of Aleppo, Syria,
declared in a video released over the weekend by the Islamic State group in the
city. ''We hope that they would down more planes,'' says another. ''As you kill,
you will be killed,'' a third warns the Russians.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/middleeast/suspects-in-russian-jet-crash
-risk-exposing-their-isis-allies-to-a-backlash.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Russian investigators inspected debris from a jet that blew up
north of Sharm el Sheikh, Egypt, killing all 224 aboard. The group suspected in
the crash is the Sinai Province of the Islamic State. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KHALED
ELFIQI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINAI PROVINCE (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (89%); ISLAMIC
STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (88%);
REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%);
ASSASSINATION (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (68%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%)

COUNTRY: EGYPT (97%); SYRIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                        The International New York Times

Colombia's Gay Adoption Ruling

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg.

LENGTH: 260 words


In a landmark ruling that eliminated a glaringly discriminatory policy,
Colombia's highest court ruled on Wednesday that gay individuals and couples may
adopt children. In a 6-to-2 decision, the Constitutional Court found that
barring gay people from adopting had unreasonably deprived children of the right
to be raised by families.

The decision was the latest victory for gay activists in Colombia who have
challenged discriminatory policies  in a string of smartly litigated cases. The
ruling will  make it easier for gay individuals and couples to adopt children in
state foster care. It also will allow people to be legally recognized as the
parent of a same-sex partner's biological child.

Anticipating criticism from political and religious leaders, the justices wrote
that ''doubts and fears about whether society is ready to accept this decision
won't be dissipated by being blind to an irrefutable reality.'' The judges
argued that there was no evidence that same-sex couples were unfit parents and
no compelling reason to bar them from the universe of potential adoptive
families.

Wednesday's decision sparked criticism from Catholic Church leaders, who argued
that the issue should have been decided by Congress or approved in a referendum.
While some Colombian lawmakers have introduced bills seeking to expand the
rights of gay people, those initiatives have stalled. The country's top court
has picked up the slack. In doing so, it has set a commendable example in a
region where gay people continue to face widespread discrimination and scorn.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/opinion/colombias-gay-adoption-ruling.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (92%); ADOPTION (92%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS
(92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); GAY PARENTING (90%); ADOPTION LAW (90%); SUPREME
COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FAMILY (90%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION (89%); CHRISTIANS &
CHRISTIANITY (84%); PARENTING (78%); COHABITATION (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%);
RELIGION (74%); APPEALS (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%);
CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%)

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Retrial in '90 Killing of Tourist Is Delayed

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 431 words


The Manhattan district attorney has decided to appeal a judge's decision to
grant a new trial to a Queens man convicted of taking part in the 1990 killing
of a tourist on a New York subway platform, a crime that for many residents
marked a low point in an era of fear and disorder.

The man, Johnny Hincapie, was released from prison last month on bail to await a
second day in court. He had spent 25 years in prison and was about to be paroled
when Justice Eduardo Padro of State Supreme Court in Manhattan ordered a new
trial.

The district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., filed a notice last week that he will
appeal the ruling. That will delay a new trial indefinitely while the appellate
courts examine the case.

During a meeting in State Supreme Court on Monday, Mr. Hincapie's lawyer, Ronald
L. Kuby, criticized Mr. Vance for delaying the retrial and prolonging the time
his client has a murder conviction hanging over his head. He urged Mr. Vance to
either drop the charges or go to trial.

''We are ready to retry the case now, but the district attorney does not want
the police practices of the late '80s and early '90s to be put on trial,'' Mr.
Kuby said. ''He's basically sent it off to hospice where it will die a slow
death in the appeals courts.''

Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for the Manhattan district attorney's office, noted
that Justice Padro did not exonerate Mr. Hincapie, and that he ruled only that
newly discovered witnesses might have influenced the outcome of the first trial.

''We believe the defendant is guilty of murdering a young man,'' she said.
''That fact does not change, regardless of how much time Mr. Hincapie has
served.''

Mr. Hincapie, now 43, was one of seven teenagers convicted at two separate
trials of taking part in the mugging of Brian Watkins and his family inside the
Seventh Avenue subway station at 53rd Street on Sept. 3, 1990. Mr. Watkins was
stabbed as he tried to defend his mother.

Mr. Hincapie initially confessed to the crime, but he later claimed to have
given a false account after being beaten and intimidated by a detective.

Outside court on Monday, Mr. Hincapie said he was taking things one day at a
time and seeking investors to help realize his dream of starting a children's
theater company. He said the delay in a retrial would only make it harder for
him to fully re-enter society.

''It feels a little disheartening to know that they want to appeal,'' he said.
''I feel like the district attorney was taking this personally, with my
attorney. They don't want to focus on me and the truth of my case, on my
innocence.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/nyregion/ruling-granting-retrial-for-convict-i
n-1990-new-york-subway-killing-is-appealed.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Manhattan district attorney will appeal the granting of a
retrial for Johnny Hincapie. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN YANG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); APPEALS (91%); LAWYERS (90%); DECISIONS &
RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); CRIMINAL
CONVICTIONS (90%); MURDER (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS
(78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); US
STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PAROLE (78%); CORRECTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS
(77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); HOSPICE (65%); CHILDREN (50%); THEATER
(50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Don Gregory Dies at 80; Produced Solo Plays

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 817 words


Don Gregory, a theater producer who specialized in star vehicles, including
one-actor shows for Henry Fonda, Julie Harris and James Earl Jones on Broadway,
died on Thursday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 80.

His son, David Gregory, the television journalist, said the cause was a stroke.

Often working with a co-producer, Mike Merrick, Mr. Gregory built numerous
productions around the talent and charisma of recognizable stars.

He brought Richard Burton back to Broadway in one of his more celebrated roles,
certainly his best-known musical role, as King Arthur in a 1980 revival of
''Camelot.''

In 1981, Mr. Gregory and Mr. Merrick brought Rex Harrison back to Broadway in a
revival of his most famous show and most famous role, Henry Higgins in ''My Fair
Lady''; later that year, they brought ''Camelot'' back for a return engagement
starring Richard Harris, a performance of which was taped and shown on HBO.

In 1983, Mr. Gregory helped produce a Broadway ''Othello'' that starred Mr.
Jones in the title role and Christopher Plummer, in what many have considered
one of the great Shakespearean performances of the last half-century, as Iago.

In the 1970s, Mr. Gregory produced, or co-produced, a number of solo-performer
shows that matched a celebrated actor with a celebrated historical personage.
They included ''Clarence Darrow,'' a play by David W. Rintels based on Irving
Stone's novelistic biography ''Clarence Darrow for the Defense,'' which toured
widely with Mr. Fonda, appearing twice for limited runs on Broadway; and William
Luce's play ''The Belle of Amherst,'' in which Ms. Harris gave a Tony-winning
performance as Emily Dickinson.

A third show, ''Paul Robeson,'' starred Mr. Jones as Robeson, the actor, singer
and social crusader. (The cast technically includes a second performer onstage,
a piano player.)

That production became controversial just before it opened on Broadway in 1978,
when dozens of prominent black writers, artists and politicians signed a letter
that was published as an advertisement in Variety criticizing the show, written
by a black writer, Phillip Hayes Dean, as, ''however unintended, a pernicious
perversion of the essence of Paul Robeson.''

In an interview in The New York Times, Mr. Gregory responded to the letter,
noting that many of its signers had not seen the play and that the production
had been slowly evolving over the course of many weeks on the road.

Referring to Mr. Jones and the play's director, Lloyd Richards, he said: ''These
are prominent black people. Do you think they would tolerate any kind of
distortion, or anything pernicious, especially if a white man is producing it?

''I'm not saying that we don't take certain dramatic license, but we do not make
Robeson into a politically naïve man. We're not trying to erase his greatness.
We've enhanced it. Let them come and see it, and then take ads.'' He added,
''Censorship before the fact is fascism.''

''Paul Robeson'' opened as scheduled and had a modest run of 77 performances.
Mr. Gregory and Mr. Dean, who died in 2014, gained some vindication when the
play was revived twice, in 1988 and 1995, with Avery Brooks as the star.

Mr. Gregory was born Donald Ginsberg in the Bronx on Dec. 3, 1934. His father,
Morris, died when he was 4; his mother, the former Dorothy Sheffrin, remarried,
and the family moved to Norwich, Conn.

Donald attended the University of Connecticut for a time, but left before
graduating to move to California and try his hand at acting. He changed his name
for professional reasons: ''He wanted to sound less ethnic,'' his son said.

He joined the Army in the mid-1950s and served in Germany. On his return he
worked for a time as a talent agent in New York.

Mr. Gregory's first marriage, to Carolyn Fitzpatrick (now Carolyn Surtees),
ended in divorce. In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, the former
Kaye Romine, whom he married in 1981; a daughter, Stephanie Mitchell; and four
grandchildren.

Mr. Gregory's other Broadway credits include ''Copperfield,'' a 1981 musical
based on Dickens's ''David Copperfield''; ''Buttons on Broadway'' (1995), an
evening of song and shtick by the septuagenarian comedian Red Buttons; and a
2012 revival of ''Harvey,'' Mary Chase's good-natured comedy about a man who
talks to an invisible rabbit, with the television star Jim Parsons.

Mr. Gregory's attempts to bring Howard Fast's one-actor play ''Citizen Tom
Paine'' to Broadway, first with Kirk Douglas and later with Richard Thomas,
never materialized. Neither did a musical about Charlie Chaplin with John
Rubinstein.

He produced Dore Schary's play ''FDR,'' with Robert Vaughn as Franklin Delano
Roosevelt, which became a television movie; an Off Broadway revival of ''The
Belle of Amherst'' with Joely Richardson; and, also Off Broadway, Tom Lysaght's
one-man show ''Nobody Don't Like Yogi'' (as in Berra), with Ben Gazzara.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/theater/don-gregory-theater-producer-of-solo-s
hows-dies-at-80.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Don Gregory
 Julie Harris in 1977 as Emily Dickinson in the one-woman show ''The Belle of
Amherst,'' by William Luce, at the Phoenix Theater in London. The role won her a
Tony in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER (90%);
THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%);
THEATER REVIEWS (89%); WRITERS (89%); TONY AWARDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%);
CELEBRITIES (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT &
ARTS AWARDS (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (64%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (66%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Key Prosecution Witness Scrutinized in Closing Arguments at Lufthansa Trial

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 851 words


It was not so much Vincent Asaro but his cousin Gaspare Valenti, the key
prosecution witness against him, who was under scrutiny as closing arguments in
Mr. Asaro's trial on racketeering charges concluded on Monday.

In a spirited summation in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, Elizabeth
Macedonio, a defense lawyer for Mr. Asaro, suggested that Mr. Valenti had made
up tales about her client.

''Gasper Valenti is an experienced liar,'' Ms. Macedonio said, using a name Mr.
Valenti goes by. ''He is a person who was able to lie to everyone around him --
everyone, including his family members -- for years.''

She portrayed Mr. Valenti as someone who was out for money and who would tell
the government whatever it wanted to hear in order to get cash. (He has been
paid $178,000 since he began informing in 2008, according to the government.)

Twelve years Mr. Asaro's junior, Mr. Valenti grew up across the street from him
on the Brooklyn-Queens border. Mr. Valenti testified that they began committing
crimes together when Mr. Valenti was a young man. In 1969, Mr. Valenti said, he
helped Mr. Asaro bury the body of Paul Katz, a man he said Mr. Asaro had killed.

As Mr. Asaro rose through the Mafia ranks, Mr. Valenti continued as his
sidekick. They participated in the Lufthansa heist of 1978 together, stealing $6
million in cash and jewels from a terminal at Kennedy International Airport, Mr.
Valenti said. Though the federal authorities suspected Mafia members were
involved, they had not prosecuted anyone for the crime until Mr. Valenti's
information led them to arrest Mr. Asaro.

Mr. Valenti testified that he began recording Mr. Asaro in 2010 for the Federal
Bureau of Investigation.

But those tapes, played in court, showed little, Ms. Macedonio argued. ''What
you heard was Vincent Asaro drove around with Gasper Valenti all day,
fantasizing,'' she said.

The energy in Ms. Macedonio's summation was a shift from much of the trial. The
defense put only two witnesses on the stand and did not extensively
cross-examine most of the government witnesses.

Nicole M. Argentieri, an assistant United States attorney, gave a rebuttal on
Monday, arguing that Mr. Valenti had not been arrested or charged with anything
when he called up the F.B.I. and offered to inform. ''He wasn't facing any
charges, and as a result of the information he provided, he pleaded guilty to
serious crimes,'' she said. ''If he lies, his cooperation agreement gets ripped
up.''

Ms. Macedonio highlighted what she considered flaws in some of Mr. Valenti's
testimony. Mr. Valenti had said, for instance, that Mr. Asaro had opened a
nightclub called ''Afters,'' for ''After Lufthansa.''

That club got its liquor license just 11 days from the day of the robbery, she
said, so the idea that it was named for Lufthansa did not make sense. ''Isn't it
crazy for a group of individuals who were so surveillance-conscious, who had
just committed the biggest heist in history, to name a club after the biggest
heist in history?'' she said. ''Could this be 'After Hours'? Could it be 'After'
anything? Yeah, but it's not after Lufthansa.''

As for the 1969 murder of Paul Katz, Ms. Macedonio suggested that anyone who
could corroborate Mr. Valenti's tale was now dead, leaving him room to make up
his account of the murder. (In fact, Mr. Asaro's son Jerome, a Bonanno captain
who was arrested alongside him, pleaded guilty last year to helping Mr. Valenti
dig up and move Mr. Katz's body in the 1980s. Mr. Valenti testified that the
body-moving was at Mr. Asaro's direction.)

Ms. Macedonio appeared to falter when she backed away from Mr. Asaro's Mafia
links. ''We're not running from who Vincent Asaro is,'' she said, as she seemed
to do just that. He was someone who always did what he wanted, she said, which
''eliminates him from being the man the government describes: a loyal soldier to
the Bonanno crime family.''

That argument failed to address much of the evidence the government presented.
In recordings, Mr. Asaro talked about being promoted in his Mafia family, being
a wiseguy and other clear references. Decades of surveillance photos showed him
hanging out at Mafia social clubs year after year; various witnesses testified
that these clubs were limited to Mafia members and associates. And several
witnesses who were part of the Mafia said Mr. Asaro was a Bonanno member.

''Really?'' Ms. Argentieri responded. ''You heard the defendant talking about
the Bonanno crime family and his intimate involvement with it on tape. They say
this defendant, he beats to his own drum.''

She added, ''That may be, but he's in the marching band,'' which was the Bonanno
family.

For Mr. Valenti to tape Mr. Asaro year after year as the F.B.I. listened without
knowing firsthand that Mr. Asaro had committed crimes made no sense, Ms.
Argentieri argued. ''How is that going to work, exactly?'' she asked.

''The Mafia is a treacherous life, it is a dangerous life -- no one knows what
it requires more than this defendant,'' she said.

The jury deliberated briefly on Monday, and will return on Tuesday morning to
continue.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/nyregion/prosecution-witness-in-asaro-mafia-tr
ial-is-scrutinized-in-closing-arguments.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gaspare Valenti

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WITNESSES (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%);
ARRESTS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT
(87%); LAWYERS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); CROSS
EXAMINATIONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); AGREEMENTS (74%);
INVESTIGATIONS (71%); AIRPORTS (64%); NIGHTCLUBS (61%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
(50%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%)

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111
SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION,
SCHEDULED (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mission: A Scorecard in Rio

BYLINE: By LISA D. MICKEY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 986 words


Candy Hannemann had been sidelined from the L.P.G.A. Tour for several years
because of wrist operations when she learned that golf would return to the 2016
Olympic Games.

But it was not just the return of golf to the Olympics for the first time since
1904 that interested her. It was that Hannemann's hometown, Rio de Janeiro,
would be the host.

Because Brazil is the host nation, at least one Brazilian will be invited to
compete in the field of 60 players in the women's tournament. Hannemann wants a
shot at that spot.

''I now have a very specific goal -- to play in the Olympics -- and I'm really
focused on it,'' said Hannemann, 35, who lives in Boston with her husband, Adam
Grossman, a Red Sox executive.

On a trip to Rio, Hannemann discussed the Olympics with members of her home
course, Gavea Golf and Country Club. Hannemann said that before she left, one of
the men pulled her aside and told her: ''You can't let this opportunity go by.
Whatever you need, go do it, and we'll help you.''

Hannemann began her professional career in 2002 on the Futures Tour, now known
as the Symetra Tour, the development tour for the L.P.G.A. She won two titles in
2003 and finished third on the Futures Tour money list to earn an exempt
L.P.G.A. status for the 2004 season.

She went on to earn nearly $500,000 on the L.P.G.A. Tour, but she played her
last competitive round in 2009, succumbing to the pain in her right wrist. She
did not touch a club in 2010 or 2011. She settled in Boston, married Grossman
and gave birth to their daughters, Stella in 2012 and Luiza in 2014.

But with her wrist pain gone and a new goal in sight, Hannemann decided to
return to the Symetra Tour this year, and she headed to Florida in March.

''I was playing a practice round and chatting with two young pros this spring
when I told them I had kids,'' Hannemann said. ''They looked at me like I was an
alien, and that's when it hit me that I'm at a really different place in my
life. I was like them once, with no other worries than just playing golf.''

Hannemann started the season traveling with her daughters and a full-time nanny,
but as the season wore on and tournament sites became more scattered, the
children stayed at home with their father.

''There's so much stuff you have to take when you travel with kids,'' Hannemann
said. ''On one trip when we flew, I had nine items, including a crib, a
stroller, two car seats, my golf clubs and a bunch of bags.''

Hannemann was the only player on the Symetra Tour traveling with children. She
was also playing on a tour where the average age is 25.

''When she won the N.C.A.A. championship, that was 14 years ago,'' said
Grossman, who first met his wife in the Duke library after reading about her in
the campus newspaper. ''And a lot of players she's competing against now were
about 3 years old.''

Beth Bauer Grace, a former teammate of Hannemann's at Duke, said representing
Brazil at the Olympics would mean a lot to Hannemann.

''I cannot imagine all that she has to balance with two young girls and trying
to play professionally at the highest level to reach this goal,'' said Grace,
who was on Duke's 1999 N.C.A.A. championship team with Hannemann. ''But anything
is possible, and I am definitely rooting for her.''

Hannemann's return started slowly. She played in 11 Symetra Tour events and
missed seven cuts. Her best finish was a tie for 36th in August at a tournament
in Massachusetts held 45 minutes from her home.

''It was a plus to be able to go home each day and not worry about what the kids
were doing,'' she said.

She also played in three tournaments in the L.P.G.A., where she still has
playing status, but missed the cut in each. It was a far cry from her last
healthy L.P.G.A. season, in 2006, when she posted two top-10 finishes.

''I haven't played great and I know that, but this is a process, and I'm not
discouraged,'' she said. ''It's been very humbling, but I don't feel like I've
lost that edge you need to compete. It's still there, but it's taking time to
get the physical and the mental parts to match up.''

Grossman regularly watches top athletes battle back into form and has remained
supportive of his wife's effort to play in Rio next summer, but he said there
was a vast difference between players fighting for roster spots and individuals
trying to regain form on their own.

''With baseball, there's an infrastructure around anyone who is part of our
team, whether that's with Red Sox players or minor leaguers,'' he said. ''And
there are resources our club provides in which we put a lot of time, effort and
money into making sure we are giving our players the best possibility to perform
at the highest level.''

He added: ''With Candy, she is the C.E.O., the manager, the player, the coach,
the caddie and even the person who knocks on doors and asks different courses if
she can practice there.''

Hannemann will play in the L.P.G.A.'s Lorena Ochoa Invitational in Mexico this
week and will return to L.P.G.A. qualifying school in December. She will
continue competing in 2016, trying to improve her Rolex women's world golf
rankings by the summer deadline when Olympians will be selected based on the
rankings. It was Ochoa, the former world No. 1, that Hannemann defeated to win
the 2001 N.C.A.A. individual title. The two have been friends since they were
13, and a good showing in Ochoa's tournament could improve Hannemann's rank.
Four golfers from Brazil are ranked, but Hannemann is not.

Dan Brooks, the women's golf coach at Duke, said that Hannemann, his former
player, had the determination to move up the rankings but that preparation would
be key because of the other demands in her life.

''Candy is a competitor, and she's a very, very good golfer, but she needs to be
as productive and as concentrated as possible when she practices to maximize her
efforts,'' Brooks said. ''If anybody can do this, she can.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/golf/as-golf-returns-to-the-olympics-a-
brazilian-golfer-hopes-to-return-to-rio-too.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Candy Hannemann with her daughter Luiza in Brookline, Mass. She
left competitive golf in 2009 because of wrist pain but returned this year.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B10)
 Candy Hannemann during an L.P.G.A. event in 2006. She is focused on improving
her game. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN BAZEMORE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); 2016 RIO
SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); GOLF (90%); OLYMPICS (90%);
SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); CHILDREN (74%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (56%)

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (71%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%)

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (90%); UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Successful Double Team on Sleeping Slckness

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; GLOBAL HEALTH; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 361 words


Cases of human sleeping sickness have fallen greatly in parts of rural Uganda
where cattle were given an experimental dual treatment that killed both the
parasites that cause the disease and the flies that carry them, researchers in
Scotland said Monday.

British news media widely reported a 90 percent drop in cases, which would
represent a stunning advance against a disease that is hard to treat and can
cause agonizing deaths.

But the lead researcher, Susan Welburn, a zoonotic disease specialist at the
University of Edinburgh, later conceded that the data supporting that large
decline -- cited in a request for funding to expand the program -- were ''not so
great.'' Still, she said, it was clear that the new technique had cut cattle
infections, which lead to human ones, by 75 percent.

Sleeping sickness is caused by trypanosome parasites carried by tsetse flies,
which feed on cattle and on humans. Untreated, the disease is almost inevitably
fatal in humans, and the last stages often involve a rabieslike madness.

In 2006, the British government, European Union, Wellcome Trust and other donors
began funding a campaign to stamp out an epidemic of sleeping sickness in
northern Uganda. Two strains that had long been geographically separated began
to overlap, killing more than 100 people a day.

The effort was led by researchers from Dr. Welburn's laboratory and the
veterinary school of Uganda's Makerere University.

In the campaign, 400,000 cattle in seven districts were injected with the
anti-parasitic drugs Veridium or Veriben. Their legs and bellies, which flies
bite, were sprayed monthly with Vectocid, a long-lasting insecticide.

The animals' ears were also sprayed, a ''bit of sleight-of-hand'' that persuaded
reluctant farmers to cooperate, Dr. Welburn said. Because African cattle
infected with the parasites do not get sleeping sickness, few farmers would make
extra efforts to stamp them out, she said.

But the ears are full of ticks, and cattle do die of tick-borne diseases like
East Coast fever. Farmers were willing to herd their cows to spray stations to
prevent that. ''A farmer is a farmer -- it's business,'' Dr. Welburn said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/health/new-treatment-slows-an-epidemic-of-slee
ping-sickness.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROPICAL DISEASES (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); MAMMALS (89%);
INSECTICIDES (78%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (78%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (78%); BITES
& STINGS (78%); TICK BORNE DISEASES (77%); ANIMALS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS
(58%); EUROPEAN UNION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

CITY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (73%)

COUNTRY: UGANDA (92%); SCOTLAND (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%);
UNITED KINGDOM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

For a Flamenco Performer, Sartorial Flair Is Part of the Charm

BYLINE: By GIA KOURLAS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 431 words


The flamenco dancer Olga Pericet may be a tiny thing, but she knows how to fill
a stage. She's also lightning quick with a shawl -- but more on that later.

Both kittenish and sleek, Ms. Pericet is a cross between Christina Ricci and a
Russian ballerina. Is she a great flamenco dancer? Let's put it this way: She
isn't the type to lose control of herself, to dance with such raw ferocity that
she travels to another dimension and escapes only by stamping and twisting her
way out. In any discipline, but especially flamenco, I like a dancer who isn't
afraid to be ugly. That's not Ms. Pericet.

She does have her charms, though, which are on display in ''Olga Pericet:
Flamenco Sin Título'' (''Flamenco Untitled''), which returned to the intimate
Repertorio Español on Thursday night with the guitarist Antonia Jiménez Arenas
and the singers José Ángel Carmona Manzano and Ismael Fernández. Ms. Pericet
begins her show dramatically: standing under a hanging light, she pulls its
string to make it swing back and forth before sliding her heels on the floor and
unleashing, not a flamenco stamp, but a litany of hand gestures.

Ms. Pericet, who wears tight black trousers and a white bolero jacket, is
clearly influenced by European contemporary dance in which hands and wrists
swirl -- often around the head -- with random abandon. At this point in any
dance form, excessive hand movements are contrived, but Ms. Pericet, using her
hips shrewdly, redeems these moves with absorbing touches that reveal the
sinuous spiral of her back and arms.

It's an uneven program all the same. Despite the musicians, whose simple
dynamism draws on flamenco's emotion, ''Flamenco Untitled'' feels too
premeditated from the start. Also jarring are two sections set to recorded
music, including one in which Ms. Pericet transforms herself into flirtatious
girl with the help of an expansive red crinoline skirt. Plucking a rose from her
bosom, she sticks it in her mouth and holds it like a cigar. Is she now Carmen?
In the end, she tosses the flower to the crowd.

In other moments, Ms. Pericet's costume changes bring more satisfying results.
In one body-hugging dress, she manipulates a ruffled train with lithe grace. But
the most memorable section highlights her spectacular agility with a fringe
shawl, which she whips around her slim shoulders, whirls into sideways and even
spins its ends like propellers. As costume dramas go, it's a marvel.

''Olga Pericet: Flamenco Untitled'' continues through Nov. 22 at Repertorio
Español, 138 East 27th Street, Manhattan; 212-225-9999, repertorio.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/09/arts/dance/review-in-olga-pericet-flamenco-unt
itled-the-dancer-maintains-control.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Olga Pericet: This dancer, foreground, is joined by, from left,
Ismael Fernández, Antonia Jiménez Arenas and José Ángel Carmona Manzano, at
Repertorio Español in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (91%); DANCERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SINGERS &
MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC (88%); BALLET (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (72%); MUSIC
INDUSTRY (63%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (64%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (64%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Waste as Its Own Solution

BYLINE: By PETER ANDREY SMITH

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 888 words


Two years ago, Catherine Duff, then 57, tearfully described eight debilitating
bouts of antibiotic-resistant Clostridium difficile infection to a government
panel in Washington. She grew better, she said, only after treating the
gastrointestinal infection at home with her husband's feces, a blender and an
enema bag.

Mark B. Smith, a young doctoral student in microbiology, was in the audience,
almost as teary as Ms. Duff. Resolving to help patients like her, he started a
nonprofit called OpenBiome, the first stool bank in the country, which
distributes fecal samples from healthy donors to help cure people with tenacious
C. difficile infections.

Now OpenBiome has made the process, called fecal microbiota transplantation, far
simpler. The bank has come up with a capsule containing fecal microbes that can
be taken much like any other drug -- poop in a pill.

''It's such an obvious improvement,'' Dr. Smith said.

C. difficile resides among trillions of other bacteria in normal, healthy
humans. When antibiotics wipe out the competition, the bacteria spread through
the gut, producing toxins and causing persistent diarrhea. The disease afflicts
an estimated 450,000 Americans annually, killing 15,000. Most pick up the
infection in hospitals and nursing homes.

The offending microbes are themselves increasingly resistant to conventional
antibiotics. A fecal transplant is often the last resort.

The donor's stool is introduced into the intestine or colon of a sick patient
via an enema, colonoscopy or nasal tubes. The healthy bacteria appear to
displace C. difficile and re-establish a normal microbial community in the gut.

But transplants are expensive, time-consuming and invasive. ''The first thing we
started thinking about was, we need to get rid of the colonoscopy,'' Dr. Smith
said.

Two studies showed that encapsulated pills, in frozen and freeze-dried form,
were effective in treating recurrent C. difficile. But it was not clear how to
produce the capsules in large quantities. ''It's got to retain viability,'' Dr.
Smith said. ''It's got to all be done at room to body temperature.''

The active biological ingredient posed a particular challenge. Capsules are
often designed to dissolve in feces; filled with it, the pills essentially
degrade from the inside out.

After more than a year and a half, OpenBiome finally developed capsules made
with a microbial emulsion that traps tiny droplets of bacterial cells in an
aqueous fat. As a result, the pills remain solid at room temperature, then
liquefy and dissolve in the upper small intestine.

In a pilot study, presented last month at a scientific meeting in Europe,
clinicians showed that swallowing a single dose of 30 capsules cured 70 percent
of patients with C. difficile infections. When uncured patients were re-treated
with a second dose, the cure rate rose to 94 percent.

In previous studies, by comparison, fecal microbiota administered via
colonoscopy has been shown to be about 90 percent effective in curing C.
difficile infection; antibiotics tend to be less than 40 percent effective.
Currently, the new 30-capsule regimen is priced at $635 and is sold only to
doctors. The pills are not approved by the Food and Drug Administration, but the
agency has chosen not to take enforcement action because of the lack of
alternatives.

Despite the improvement, the ''pill burden'' is substantial, and swallowing
capsules filled with human feces is not without risk. Get potentially lifesaving
gut microbes into the lungs, for instance, and the treatment could prove fatal.

Some suspect healthy human stool eventually may not be necessary at all. Seres
Therapeutics, a Cambridge, Mass., biotechnology company, is conducting Phase II
clinical trials of SER-109, a four-pill regimen made from spore-forming
anaerobic bacteria extracted from donated human feces and treated with ethanol.

According to Dr. Roger Pomerantz, the chief executive of Seres, the company also
has a second-generation pill that comprises similar microorganisms grown
synthetically in the laboratory. He does not see a future for pills containing
actual feces.

''I don't see why anyone would do it,'' Dr. Pomerantz said. ''I can't believe
the future is sending feces around the country.'' At the moment, however, these
new formulations are still under development, and there is no alternative.

Dr. Smith and his colleagues say encapsulated pills will help expand research.
Clinical trials around the country, and the world, are testing the fecal
microbiota transplants against not just C. difficile, but other gastrointestinal
ailments.

Dr. Jessica R. Allegretti, a physician at Brigham and Women's Hospital in
Boston, is putting together trials of the capsules against Crohn's disease,
obesity and primary C. difficile.

''It really does reduce the time from evaluation to procedure. It really does
broaden who can get treated on a much larger scale, and for that, capsules are
the wave of the future,'' she said -- especially, she added, for disorders that
appear to require multiple treatments, or ''maintenance'' doses.

''What capsules are allowing us to do is really pursue these long-term studies,
long-term maintenance therapy, which is more practical for these chronic
diseases,'' she said. ''Without capsules, we wouldn't be able to do this kind of
work.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/health/fecal-transplants-made-somewhat-more-pa
latable.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ­Gina Mendolia, above, in an OpenBiome laboratory with a
microbiota preparation for a capsule that treats C. difficile, left.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIBIOTICS (91%); BACTERIA (91%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); ANTIBIOTIC
RESISTANCE (90%); ENDOSCOPY (89%); ANALGESICS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%);
DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MICROBIOLOGY (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE
FACILITIES (77%); BIOLOGY (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CONFERENCES &
CONVENTIONS (73%); NURSING HOMES (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Global Shift to Lower-Carbon Energy Is Too Slow, Report Warns

BYLINE: By STANLEY REED

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 431 words


LONDON --  Even as the world shifts toward lower-carbon forms of energy, the
changes are happening too slowly to keep global temperatures from rising to
dangerous levels in the coming decades, an international research group warns in
a report to be released on Tuesday.

And low oil prices could make the problem worse by slowing the planet's
transition to cleaner and more efficient cars, trucks and aircraft, according to
the report, by the International Energy Agency. The group represents nearly 30
countries and aims to promote secure and environmentally sustainable global
energy.

''Now is not the time to relax,'' Fatih Birol, the agency's executive director,
said in a statement accompanying the report.

The group, based in Paris, said in its annual ''World Energy Outlook'' that
Asian countries like India and China could play a big role in determining how
successfully the world combats climate change.

China now seems on a path of slowing growth in its energy demand, the agency
said. But India, where one in five people still lacks access to electricity, is
entering an energy boom, the report said. While both countries will have high
demand for nuclear and renewable energy, the report said, India could also
become the largest source of new demand for oil and for the dirtiest of fossil
fuels: coal.

The report is to be officially presented at a news conference on Tuesday in
London, before the United Nations climate conference to be held in Paris from
Nov. 30 to Dec. 11.

The agency said the pressure on countries to reduce carbon emissions had driven
adoption of renewable energy sources like solar and wind power, which
represented almost half of the world's new electricity-generating capacity in
2014.

''Impossible is becoming possible,'' said Kaisa Kosonen, a climate policy
adviser at the environmental group Greenpeace. ''The global breakthrough of
renewable energy has happened much faster than anticipated.''

And despite the report's warnings about India's coal consumption, that fuel is
on the decline. In the last decade, coal has been used to satisfy 45 percent of
new demand for global energy, the agency said, but it is likely to meet 10
percent of such demand until 2040.

Even so, the report warned, ''a major course correction is still required to
achieve the world's agreed climate goal'' of limiting global warming to about
3.6 degrees Fahrenheit above preindustrial 19th-century levels.

''As the largest source of global greenhouse gas emissions, the energy sector
must be at the heart of global action to tackle climate change,'' Mr. Birol
said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/energy-environment/shift-to-lower-car
bon-energy-is-too-slow-report-warns.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gathering coal from a coal field dumpsite in Jharkhand, a state
in India, where one in five people still lacks access to electricity.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY AHMAD MASOOD/REUTERS AHMAD MASOOD/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTPUT & DEMAND (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT
(89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL
& WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%);
CLIMATOLOGY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ENERGY
& UTILITY REGULATION & POLICY (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
(78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY
SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS DEMAND (77%);
ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%);
ELECTRICITY GENERATING CAPACITY (71%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%);
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%)

STATE: JHARKHAND, INDIA (79%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (94%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Drugs Pervade Russian Sport, Report Alleges

BYLINE: By REBECCA R. RUIZ; Neil MacFarquhar, Ivan Nechepurenko and Alexandra
Odynova contributed reporting from Moscow.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1565 words


GENEVA --  Members of Russia's secret service intimidated workers at a
drug-testing lab to cover up top athletes' positive results. They impersonated
lab engineers during the Winter Olympics in Sochi last year. A lab once
destroyed more than 1,400 samples.

Athletes adopted false identities to avoid unexpected testing. Some paid to make
doping violations disappear. Others bribed the antidoping authorities to ensure
favorable results, and top sports officials routinely submitted bogus urine
samples for athletes who were doping.

Those allegations were among hundreds contained in a report released Monday by
the World Anti-Doping Agency. Across 323 pages, it implicates athletes, coaches,
trainers, doctors and various Russian institutions, laying out what is very
likely the most extensive state-sponsored doping program since the notorious
East German regime of the 1970s.

In addition to providing a granular look at systematic doping, the group that
drafted the report made extraordinary recommendations, including a proposal that
Russia be suspended from competition by track and field's governing body and
barred from track and field events at next summer's Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.

''It's worse than we thought,'' Dick Pound, founding president of the World
Anti-Doping Association and an author of the report, said at a news conference
in a Geneva hotel. ''This is an old attitude from the Cold War days.''

Russian officials responded with defiance, disputing the investigation's
findings. ''Whatever we do, everything is bad,'' Vitaly Mutko, Russia's sports
minister, told the news agency Interfax. ''If this whole system needs to shut
down, we will shut it down gladly. We will stop paying fees, stop funding the
Russian antidoping agency, the Moscow antidoping laboratory. We will only save
money.''

Dr. Grigory Rodchenkov, the director of the Moscow lab whom Monday's report
accused of having solicited and accepted bribes, dismissed the suggestions.
''This is an independent commission which only issues recommendations,'' he
said. ''There are three fools sitting there who don't understand the
laboratory.''

Mr. Pound said he had presented the group's findings to Mr. Mutko before they
were released publicly. ''He's frustrated to some degree,'' he said. ''He
certainly knew what was going on. They all knew.''

The report also recommended that the World Anti-Doping Agency impose lifetime
bans on five Russian coaches and five athletes, including the gold and bronze
medalists in the women's 800 meters at the 2012 London Olympics.

''The Olympic Games in London were, in a sense, sabotaged by the admission of
athletes who should have not been competing,'' the report read.

Bans from competition are not all that could come of the inquiry. Mr. Pound said
the agency had negotiated a cooperation agreement with Interpol and had handed
over extensive documents and evidence. Interpol confirmed that cooperation with
its own announcement on Monday, noting that related inquiries stretched from
Singapore to France.

Last week, the French authorities announced that they had opened a criminal
investigation into the former president of track and field's world governing
body, Lamine Diack of Senegal, over allegations that he accepted bribes to allow
at least six Russian athletes to participate in competitions, including the 2012
Olympics.

The former director of the medical and antidoping division of that governing
body, the International Association of Athletics Federations, is also under
investigation, the French authorities said, along with Mr. Diack's legal
adviser.

Russian athletes, in soaring numbers, have been caught doping in recent years.
Russia had far more drug violations than any other country in 2013 -- 225, or 12
percent of all violations globally, according to data from the World Anti-Doping
Agency. About a fifth of Russia's infractions involved track and field athletes,
the focus of Monday's report.

''This level of corruption attacks sport at its core,'' Richard H. McLaren, a
Canadian lawyer and an author of the report, said in an interview Sunday. In
contrast to corporate governance scandals like those currently affecting world
soccer, he said, drug use by athletes has distorted the essence of professional
games. ''Bribes and payoffs don't change actual sporting events,'' Mr. McLaren
said. ''But doping takes away fair competition.''

The report released Monday was the result of a 10-month investigation by an
independent commission of WADA. Its inquiry stemmed from a December 2014
documentary by the German public broadcaster ARD, which drew on accounts from
Russian athletes, coaches and antidoping officials, who said that the Russian
government had helped procure drugs for athletes and cover up positive test
results.

Further allegations emerged in August, when ARD and The Sunday Times of London
released another report more broadly covering the leaked results of thousands of
international athletes' blood tests dating to 2001, showing decorated athletes
in good standing with suspicious drug tests. Those allegations -- which drew
significant suspicion to Kenya -- are also being investigated by the independent
commission, but the results were not included in Monday's report, as the inquiry
is not complete, the agency said.

The three-person commission, led by Mr. Pound, also included Mr. McLaren, who
teaches law at the University of Western Ontario, and Günter Younger, the head
of cybercrime for the police in the German state of Bavaria.

WADA's foundation and executive board will decide whether to act on the
commission's recommendations; they are scheduled to meet next week in Colorado
Springs, an event that motivated the timing of the release of the commission's
report, Mr. Pound said.

In a statement on Monday, the International Olympic Committee called the report
''deeply shocking'' and said it trusted the judgment of the I.A.A.F., which
would decide whether to bar Russia from competition.

Mr. Pound did not offer any time frame for the recommended suspension. If Russia
did not fight the prescriptions -- to enact rigorous and specific drug-testing
controls -- he said he thought it could be possible for the country's track and
field athletes to compete in the Summer Olympics.

''If they do the surgery and do the therapy, I hope they can get there,'' he
said. ''That is your nuclear weapon. Either get this done or you are not going
to Rio.''

The commission also recommended that the Russian antidoping authority be
declared non-code-compliant indefinitely; that the director of the Moscow
laboratory be removed from his job; and that the lab, which was provisionally
banned in 2013, lose its accreditation.

In the case of financial prizes awarded to athletes with drug test results now
thought to be tainted, ''the money's gone,'' Mr. Pound said, ''and whoever ought
to have won didn't.''

The Russian Ministry of Sport did not immediately respond to a request for
comment. But the initial reaction in Russia fell in line with the tradition
since Soviet times, with many attributing the revelations to a Western plot to
undermine the country's accomplishments.

''It is all connected with the fact that Russian athletes demonstrate such good
results, some countries are not satisfied with it,'' said Igor Ananskikh, a
member of the youth policy and sports committee of the Russian Parliament.

Nikolai Valuev, a former Russian heavyweight boxing champion now serving as a
deputy in the Parliament, said on the state-run Rossiya 24 television channel:
''In recent times, I hear only about investigations of Russian athletes. This
has already become a system, too.

''First of all,'' he said, ''we must conduct a broad investigation to find out
whether the results of the investigation are true.''

Days before Monday's report was published, however, Russia's athletics
federation suspended five athletes, including a noted distance runner, Maria
Konovalova.

''The Russians themselves have said there are vestiges of the old Soviet system,
old-guard coaches who haven't changed and can't change,'' Mr. McLaren said.
''The minister of sport says their way of operating is over. But read our
report.''

Russia has had a particularly prominent place in the international sports
spotlight in recent years, hosting not only the Winter Games in Sochi in 2014
but also the track and field world championships in Moscow the year before.

The country is scheduled to host the next World Cup, in 2018, although the Swiss
authorities are investigating allegations that Russia might have secured the
tournament through under-the-table agreements. The Moscow laboratory implicated
in Monday's report is set to oversee testing for FIFA during the World Cup. The
lab did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Mr. Pound declined to say whether he thought Russia should be stripped of its
status as host of that tournament. ''I think FIFA's got to sort out its own
difficulties -- without our help,'' he said.

Mr. Mutko, Russia's sports minister, sits on FIFA's executive committee.

''The credibility of sport has taken some serious body blows in the last
month,'' Mr. Pound said, referring to the FIFA corruption case and to Monday's
report, which suggested that similar doping violations existed beyond track and
field. ''Public opinion is going to move toward all sports being corrupt.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/russian-athletes-part-of-state-sponsore
d-doping-program-report-finds.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Maria Konovalova, a Russian distance runner, was suspended
before the report's release. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID BANKS/GETTY IMAGES (A1)
 Dick Pound, founding president of the World Anti-Doping Association, said
Russian doping was ''worse than we thought.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALVATORE DI
NOLFI/KEYSTONE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUGS IN SPORTS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS &
RECREATION (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); TOXICOLOGY LABORATORIES (90%); TEST
LABORATORIES (90%); SPORTS (90%); DRUG TESTING (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%);
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); WINTER OLYMPICS (89%);
COACHES & TRAINERS (89%); BRIBERY (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%);
2016 RIO SUMMER OLYMPICS (78%); TRACK & FIELD (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); 2012
LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (77%); ATHLETES (77%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (77%);
2014 SOCHI WINTER OLYMPICS (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES
(65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (78%); LONDON,
ENGLAND (65%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Offer From a Woman Who Wants to Die

BYLINE: By LAURA COLLINS- HUGHES

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 442 words


Carolyn Whitlock, the long-ailing woman at the center of Chisa Hutchinson's play
''Dead and Breathing,'' at the National Black Theater, has wealth in abundance.
What's lacking is the ease she expects it to bring her.

For all the lavishness of her enviable home, where she has languished in hospice
care for two years, she has no use for material goods. At 68, Carolyn (Lizan
Mitchell) has had enough. The one thing she wants is someone to help her exit
this life. Her latest nurse, Veronika (Nikki E. Walker), strikes her as a
promising candidate, though why is not especially apparent. Soon Carolyn is
phoning her lawyer to change her will, bequeathing the whole estate to the
nurse. The catch being, of course, that the devoutly Christian Veronika will
have to kill Carolyn to get it.

As Carolyn explains, her estate is worth $87 million. ''That's not even counting
the house,'' she tells Veronika, and we can deduce from the rooms of Maruti
Evans's rich, ruby-carpeted set that it's a very nice spread. ''This wouldn't be
such a bad place to raise a few kids.''

''Oh, sure,'' Veronika replies facetiously. '''And this is the room where I
killed sweet old Miss Carolyn so I could inherit everything we have today,
kids.'''

Jonathan McCrory's production begins and ends with eloquent wordless moments. In
the opening tableau, which occurs in near darkness, we watch Veronika help a
naked Carolyn climb into a high-sided tub. In the play's surprising final image,
the countenance of one of the women tells us all we need to know.

Between those two points, though, the script's tonal impulses are erratic, and
Mr. McCrory can't make sense of them. Is this a sitcom dependent on
spunky-grandma humor and laugh-track timing? A drama about opposites who open
their hearts to each other? A soap opera whose implausible twists come out of
nowhere?

Against such uncertainty, the elegant Ms. Mitchell -- who spends most of the
play in a shimmering golden caftan (costumes are by Karen Perry) -- turns in an
assured, anchoring performance. Ms. Walker often raced through her lines at
Saturday's matinee, but she seemed to grow more relaxed deeper in the show.

This two-hander is a series of ethical skirmishes, but not only about the right
to die. Privilege faces off against want, Christianity against nonbelief, and it
all feels very engineered. By the time Ms. Hutchinson introduces a debate over
transgender issues, she has long since passed the point of piling on.

''Dead and Breathing'' runs through Nov. 23 at the National Black Theater, 2031
Fifth Avenue, Manhattan; 866-811-4111, nationalblacktheatre­.org. Running time:
1 hour 20 minutes.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/theater/review-dead-and-breathing-about-the-ri
ght-to-die.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dead and Breathing: Lizan Mitchell, left, as a patient who wants
to die, and Nikki E. Walker as her nurse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTINE JEAN
CHAMBERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); HOSPICE (76%); RELIGION (73%); DEATH & DYING (72%);
ASSISTED SUICIDE (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); TELEVISION COMEDIES
(61%); LAWYERS (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Conviction Offers Guide to Future 'Spoofing' Cases

BYLINE: By PETER J. HENNING

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; WHITE COLLAR WATCH; Pg.

LENGTH: 1205 words


The recent conviction of Michael Coscia in the Federal District Court in Chicago
in the first prosecution for ''spoofing'' provides more clarity to
high-frequency trading firms about how they can operate. The message is to tread
carefully when a strategy depends on using orders that will be quickly canceled
because the government may claim they are an effort to manipulate the market by
fooling others into trading.

Spoofing was made illegal in the Dodd-Frank Act, which prohibits ''bidding or
offering with the intent to cancel the bid or offer before execution.''

Mr. Coscia faces a prison term for using an algorithm to enter and cancel large
orders for futures contracts in less than a second while placing smaller ones on
the opposite side that would become profitable once other firms reacted to his
orders that indicated an increase in buying or selling interest.

According to the Justice Department, he reaped over $1 million in profits
through his firm, Panther Energy Trading, in just a few months using programs
intended to fool traders.

Like most white-collar crime prosecutions, this one turned on the tricky issue
of proving the defendant's intent. Prosecutors relied on the high volume of
orders put out by Panther Energy that in most instances were canceled within 400
milliseconds, about the blink of an eye. To prove Mr. Coscia wanted to spoof the
market into believing there was legitimate interest in trading, the government
relied on evidence that the algorithm Mr. Coscia had used meant there was almost
no prospect that the orders would be completed .

In an uncommon move, Mr. Coscia testified in his own defense, asserting that he
''absolutely wanted to fill every order.'' The jury found him guilty of six
spoofing charges and six counts of commodities fraud, returning its verdict
after only an hour of deliberations.

That may be something close to a record for deciding a complex white-collar
prosecution, indicating that his testimony was far from persuasive.

The conviction shows that the volume of canceled orders, along with their size,
is a key to proving spoofing. But orders are canceled all the time, with
estimates that more than 90 percent are not filled. There are even orders that
are intended to be canceled quickly, such as ''fill or kill'' orders that
require the entire amount be traded or it is canceled immediately. So a high
volume of cancellations alone might not be sufficient to establish a violation.

The government argued that Mr. Coscia was different from those using order types
that were likely to result in cancellations because his algorithm sought to
cancel every order to drive the market in the direction that would allow him to
profit from his small orders while avoiding having the large ones filled. So it
was not just the canceling orders alone, but coupling them with profitable
trades driven by the cancellations as a way of demonstrating that there was
never any intention that the orders be filled -- hence, spoofing rather than
ordinary market activity.

Of course, the reason for trading is to make money, so proving a motive to
profit would not be difficult in most cases. It is linking profitable trades to
order cancellations that can establish spoofing. The proof of intent comes from
the design of a program, not what was in the mind of the person at the moment
the orders are entered and canceled. Indeed, the whole concept of high-frequency
trading is to eliminate the human element by executing transactions in the blink
of an eye.

The successful prosecution of Mr. Coscia shows the potential power of the
spoofing provision to reshape how high-frequency trading firms operate, because
canceling orders becomes the starting point for assessing whether a market
strategy crosses the line into spoofing. The more successful an algorithmic
program is, the greater the likelihood that regulators and prosecutors will be
suspicious of how it operates if it entails a heavy volume of canceled orders.

Although Mr. Coscia's case involved as many as 14,000 orders canceled over five
to six weeks, the spoofing statute says only that the trader must intend that
the order not be completed, with no minimum number required to prove a
violation.

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange
Commission are cracking down on spoofing as a means to constrain some of the
methods used by high-frequency trading firms that have raised questions about
the fairness of the markets. Reuters reported that Timothy G. Massad, the
chairman of the C.F.T.C. who spoke with reporters at a futures industry
conference after Mr. Coscia's conviction, warned firms that ''if they're
entering a lot of orders without the intention to consummate, then they should
go talk to their lawyers.''

Andrew J. Ceresney, the director of enforcement at the S.E.C., said in a speech
last Monday that the agency was focusing on spoofing ''as well as other modern
manipulation and abusive trading schemes.''

The conviction of Mr. Coscia is only the first step, as an appeal is likely to
challenge the definition of spoofing. In a pretrial motion to dismiss the
spoofing charges, he argued that the statute was unconstitutionally vague
because it did not distinguish between lawful cancellations of orders and those
that constitute a violation. That claim was rejected, and pursuing a vagueness
claim on appeal will be difficult because courts are loath to invalidate a
statute, especially after a jury verdict.

A better line of attack on appeal may be to question the six convictions for
violating the broad securities and commodities fraud statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1348.
That provision makes it a crime to ''execute or attempt to execute a scheme or
artifice'' to defraud in connection with any commodity or futures contracts.

The government argued that entering the orders with the intention to cancel them
misled other market participants, who inferred from the orders there was greater
buying or selling interest than actually existed. Unlike spoofing, which focuses
on the trader's intent to cancel, a fraud charge requires showing an intent to
deceive a victim.

It is an interesting question whether an algorithm intended to mislead other
computer programs into trading constitutes a fraud. In a typical case, there is
a misstatement or failure to disclose information on which the victim relies.
But Panther Energy entered legitimate orders, even if they were going to be
quickly canceled, so the deception was in how competing algorithms interpreted
the orders that resulted in their own trading.

Absent a falsehood or some other deception, it is arguable whether spoofing the
market is itself a type of fraud, or just a particular form of manipulative
conduct that is unfair but not a fraudulent scheme.

The prosecution of Mr. Coscia will give the federal courts an opportunity to
shape how the law of spoofing develops because the statute gives little guidance
in locating the line between permissible order cancellations and a violation.
For now, high-frequency trading firms will have to be careful in how they
operate to stay away from crossing over into a violation that can result in
civil liability and, perhaps, even a criminal prosecution.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/dealbook/conviction-offers-guide-to-f
uture-spoofing-cases.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SPOOFING (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS
(90%); TESTIMONY (89%); VERDICTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); JURY TRIALS
(78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); FUTURES
(77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); US DODD FRANK ACT (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Weyerhaeuser's Big Acquisition Looks Good on Paper

BYLINE: By KEVIN ALLISON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg.

LENGTH: 441 words


Weyerhaeuser's new $23 billion woodland monster looks good on paper.
Weyerhaeuser, the forestry giant, is paying a 14 percent premium for a $7
billion rival, Plum Creek Timber. That's modest but fair, given the expected
cost savings and a planned $2.5 billion stock buyback for both sets of
shareholders.

The deal looks like the closing chapter in Weyerhaeuser's long-running
transformation from a vertically integrated wood products and paper company to a
forestry specialist. The enterprise, based in Washington State, started pruning
businesses in 2006, when it spun off its white-paper business by merging it with
a Canadian rival.

In 2010 Weyerhaeuser unlocked the underlying real estate value of its timber
properties by transforming into a real estate investment trust, or REIT -- a
move that gave shareholders a $5.6 billion special dividend. In 2013, it struck
a $2.7 billion deal to merge its housing products division with Tri Pointe Homes
through a reverse Morris Trust.

By buying Plum Creek, Weyerhaeuser will create a real estate investment trust
with 13 million acres of woodland -- roughly half the area of Tennessee.
Weyerhaeuser said it was also looking at strategic alternatives for its
cellulose fiber business, the last of its nonlumber divisions.

The premium is less than what is commonly offered in takeovers -- which is more
than 20 percent -- but the deal is expected to be tax-free for Plum Creek
shareholders. At $1 billion above Plum Creek's market value at the end of last
week, the price also looks reasonable, considering the companies' target of $100
million in annual synergies. Those might eventually be worth about $800 million,
adjusted for taxes and the time value of money, and based on Weyerhaeuser's
effective tax rate last year.

That suggests Weyerhaeuser is overpaying slightly, and may explain the 3 percent
drop in the value of the company's shares on Monday. Plum Creek's shares, by
contrast, rose 16 percent. Weyerhaeuser's chief executive, Doyle R. Simons, who
will run the combined company, on Sunday suggested there would be ''many
synergies above and beyond'' the headline figure, however.

Owners of both companies, meanwhile, should harvest further benefits, as the
all-stock deal leaves cash available to buy back $2.5 billion in stock shortly
after closing. Weyerhaeuser will also maintain its dividend, resulting in an
effective 13 percent bump in payouts to Plum Creek shareholders. That should be
enough to leave shareholders in both companies feeling satisfied.

Kevin Allison is a columnist at Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent
commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/dealbook/weyerhaeusers-big-acquisitio
n-looks-good-on-paper.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAPER MFG (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT
TRUSTS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%);
REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (79%); DIVIDENDS (78%); PAPER &
PACKAGING (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%);
STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS
(76%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%);
FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION
(72%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: WEYERHAEUSER CO (91%); PLUM CREEK TIMBER CO INC (58%); TRI POINTE GROUP
INC (56%)

TICKER: WY (NYSE) (91%); PCL (NYSE) (58%); TPH (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322130 PAPERBOARD MILLS (91%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT
NEWSPRINT) MILLS (91%); NAICS321211 HARDWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD MANUFACTURING
(91%); NAICS113310 LOGGING (91%); SIC2411 LOGGING (58%); SIC0811 TIMBER TRACTS
(58%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE
BUILDERS) (56%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (56%)

PERSON: DOYLE R SIMONS (50%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Pines, the Gym, the Nanny, the Pre-K

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 998 words


Spare a teardrop or two for the troubled gay fathers in ''Dada Woof Papa Hot,''
a slick, mostly enjoyable new play by Peter Parnell that opened on Monday at the
Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater.

Where, oh where, will they summer next year, now that Fire Island has become
perhaps a little too, er, hot for young children, with the awkward questions
about what all those men are doing in the underbrush? How will they find a nanny
-- sorry, they prefer the delicate euphemism ''caregiver'' -- to replace the
jewel they found this summer? And while the little ones have flourished in their
fancy preschool, the challenge of getting into just the right kindergarten now
looms.

There's something off-puttingly insular about the world of privilege, both gay
and straight, depicted in Mr. Parnell's comedy-drama about the new frontier of
gay marriage and parenthood. The characters all seem to be living in a Design
Within Reach catalog, among $7,000 sofas and $4,000 chandeliers. But if you
grant Mr. Parnell his natural right to depict rarefied lives -- this is Lincoln
Center Theater, after all -- his play does delve with intricacy and heart into
the thorny lives of the proliferating number of gay couples with children today.

''And I thought it was women who were supposed to have it all,'' one of the
play's female characters wryly remarks. ''Turns out it's you guys,'' she adds,
meaning you gays. But she also adds, without malice, ''Well, we'll see what
comes from that.''

As that remark suggests, we are learning that in the 21st century, having it all
can be an elusive and ephemeral state, and perhaps not an entirely desirable
one. At its best -- when we are not being subjected to endless mommy-daddy or
daddy-daddy talk about the more trivial problems of child-rearing -- Mr.
Parnell's play smartly explores the complex emotional and sexual dynamics of
relationships, gay and straight, and how they can evolve (or devolve), once the
responsibilities of raising children factors into the equation.

The play focuses primarily on two gay couples living in New York. Rob (Patrick
Breen), in his mid-40s, is a therapist married to Alan (John Benjamin Hickey),
50, a journalist who writes for publications like The New York Times Magazine
and The New Yorker, although he'd like to jump off the deadline treadmill and
start work on that memoir.

They have a 3-year-old daughter, Nicola, and in the opening scene are meeting up
with some new friends, the younger gay dads Scott (Stephen Plunkett), who works
in private equity, and Jason (Alex Hurt), a painter. They have two boys, and the
conversation naturally (and sometimes tediously) turns on matters of preschools,
doctors and the like. (We never see any of the children.)

Hints are dropped over dinner and developed in the next scene, a dinner at Rob
and Alan's place with their straight married friends Michael (John Pankow) and
Serena (Kellie Overbey), that Alan has been troubled by Nicola's more firm
bonding with Rob. It is Rob she calls for when crankily refusing to go to bed,
and when Alan attempts to calm her she grows only more obstreperous.

Michael gamely confesses to a similar worry when they first considered having a
child. And when Rob succumbs to Nicola's demand to be read a scary bedtime
story, and Serena joins him, Michael makes a more startling confession to Alan,
almost equally casually: He's been having an affair with an actress, Julia,
played with a gently sardonic touch by Tammy Blanchard. (In a running joke,
Michael, Rob and Alan -- who also know Julia through the kids -- snark that they
are sure her husband is a closeted gay man.)

A scandalized Alan tells Michael that he should end it, but Alan is also working
on an article about a supposed ''fidelity gene.'' As it proceeds, Mr. Parnell's
play tends to offer implicit support for such a theory. Without giving too much
away, I can say that the question of extramarital sex becomes an issue for all
three of the play's couples.

The production, directed smoothly by Scott Ellis, is trimmed in appropriately
plush designs: John Lee Beatty's settings gleam with the sheen of
upper-middle-class wealth, and the costumes by Jennifer von Mayrhauser give
subtle defining touches to the characters.

Mr. Parnell's literate dialogue fits snugly amid the stylishness. There are a
few occasions when a Significant Topic trots a little too obviously into the
room. But for the most part, the play's themes -- how gay men's approaches to
sex can radically differ; whether fractured relationships can ever be repaired;
how the question of biological parenthood can become a thorny one for gay
couples; and how children can alter the sexual and emotional dynamics between
any couple -- are handled with nuance and insight.

I almost get tired of writing these (or similar) words, but the cast is
impeccable. The play does not require much in the way of acting pyrotechnics,
but establishing the nuances of relationships without the benefit of such
opportunities makes the performers' work all the more impressive.

Mr. Hickey is especially touching as Alan, who recalls feeling marginalized
(albeit, in retrospect, fortunate) during the 1980s, when most men of his
generation were blithely having lots of happily anonymous sex. Now, with
Nicola's arrival, different but similar feelings of being pushed to the margins
gnaw at him.

The curious title refers to the first four words Nicola learned. ''Dada for
Rob,'' Alan explains to Jason. ''Woof for dog, Papa for me, hot for the
radiator.'' But Alan and Rob privately joked that ''if you put them together, --
Dada woof Papa hot -- they say what every gay dad wants to hear.''

And maybe, the play sometimes implies, what every gay dad, caught up in the
consuming responsibilities of child-rearing, fears he will never have the chance
to hear again.

''Dada Woof Papa Hot'' runs through Jan. 31 at the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater,
Lincoln Center; 212-239-6200, lct.­org. Running time: 1 hour 35 minutes.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/theater/review-dada-woof-papa-hot-about-gay-me
n-and-parenthood.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patrick Breen, left, and Stephen Plunkett are married (to other
men) with children in Peter Parnell's ''Dada Woof Papa Hot'' at the Mitzi E.
Newhouse Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); GAY PARENTING (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); GAYS &
LESBIANS (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (78%); MARRIAGE (76%); WRITERS (60%);
PRIVATE EQUITY (50%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 59 words


An article  on Saturday about high school students in Cañon City, Colo., who
traded naked pictures of themselves misstated the distinction claimed by the
Royal Gorge Bridge and Park, a nearby tourist attraction that employs many
people from the tightly knit community. Park officials say the suspension bridge
is America's highest, not the world's highest.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (86%); STUDENTS &
STUDENT LIFE (86%); HIGH SCHOOLS (86%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (80%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 58 words


Because of an editing error, an obituary on Friday about the car customizer
George Barris referred incorrectly to Drag-u-La, a car he created for the
television show ''The Munsters'' in which he incorporated a coffin. It was not
the family car. (The family car, known as the Munster Koach, was also designed
by Mr. Barris but did not include a coffin.)



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 43 words


The Friday File article on Friday, about New York Times critics' observations
through the years about the James Bond movies starring Sean Connery, misstated
the date that The Times's review of ''You Only Live Twice'' appeared. It was
June 14, 1967, not Jan. 14.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 48 words


A report in the Inside Art column on Friday about the ''Munch and
Expressionism'' exhibition opening in February at the Neue Galerie New York,
using information from the museum, misidentified an artist whose work will be
included. He was Richard Gerstl; Karl Gerstner is not in the show.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 112 words


An article in some editions on Nov. 2 about the Kansas City Royals' 7-2 victory
over the Mets in Game 5 of the World Series rendered incorrectly a quotation
from Royals first baseman Eric Hosmer about the disappointment the team felt
after losing last year's World Series. He said: ''We think about it quite often.
I've said before, and I'll say it again: I think that's kind of something that
we all turn to mentally, to kind of -- when there's points in time during the
season where your team is not going too well. You look in September there, and
we started to slide a little bit. But I just think everyone kind of relates back
to that and relates to how much that hurt.''

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (88%)

ORGANIZATION: KANSAS CITY ROYALS (93%)

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (88%)

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 72 words


Because of an editing error, the Sports of The Times column on Monday, about the
involvement of black football players at the University of Missouri in protests
about race relations on campus, described The Columbia Missourian incorrectly.
It is a daily newspaper managed by professional editors and staffed by Missouri
School of Journalism students; it is not ''the campus newspaper.'' (The Maneater
is the official student newspaper.)



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); RACE & RACISM (87%); DAILY NEWSPAPER
PUBLISHING (86%); JOURNALISM (86%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (84%)

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 114 words


Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about underreported carbon
dioxide emissions in 800,000 diesel- and gasoline-powered Volkswagen vehicles in
Europe referred incompletely to the approach the United States and European
countries take in regulating carbon dioxide emissions from passenger cars. Both
the United States and European countries have specific regulations on such
emissions; it is not the case that the Europeans are more focused on reducing
carbon dioxide emissions than the United States. (European countries have,
however, added further incentives, like giving tax credits to owners of gasoline
or diesel cars based on their low emissions of carbon dioxide.)



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (88%);
MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); GASOLINE (85%); TAX LAW (84%); TAXES & TAXATION (84%); TAX
CREDITS (51%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Man Is Killed as Car Jumps Curb in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By ASHLEY SOUTHALL

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 324 words


A man was fatally injured on Monday when a car jumped a curb, flipped over and
struck him on a Brooklyn sidewalk, the police and fire officials said.

The crash occurred around 5:30 p.m. on a busy commercial strip of Flatbush
Avenue, near Albemarle Road, the Fire Department said. The circumstances of the
crash were unclear late Monday, but the police said the victim was critically
injured when a Nissan hit him.

The man died on the way to the hospital, the police said. Officials did not
release his name.

The driver, a 58-year-old man, and his 3-year-old passenger both suffered minor
injuries, the police said. Officials said they were being treated at Kings
County Hospital Center.

The police said collision investigators were still at the scene on Monday night.

A two-car crash in Staten Island earlier on Monday killed Vincent Sugrue, 32,
and resulted in the arrest of a driver on drug charges.

The crash occurred at 11:15 a.m. at the intersection of Hylan Boulevard and Old
Town Road.

The police said Mr. Sugrue was the front passenger in a Volkswagen Jetta that
crashed into a utility pole after striking a Hyundai Elantra that was making a
left turn. The Jetta driver, Angel Ortiz, 25, was arrested on charges of drug
possession and driving without a valid license after a computer check revealed
his license had been revoked, the police said. A search of the car turned up 14
bags of what is believed to be crack cocaine, the police said.

Mr. Sugrue died at Staten Island University North Hospital. Mr. Ortiz was listed
in critical condition there, as was an 18-year-old woman who had been in the
back seat, the police said. An 88-year-old woman who was driving the Elantra was
taken to the same hospital, where she was listed in stable condition, the police
said.

Mr. Ortiz faces a charge of aggravated unlicensed operation of a motor vehicle
and two counts of criminal possession of a controlled substance, the police
said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/nyregion/man-is-killed-as-car-jumps-curb-in-br
ooklyn.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME
(89%); DRIVERS LICENSES (89%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (88%);
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (78%); DRIVERS LICENSE
SUSPENSION & REVOCATION (78%); PARAMEDICS (78%); VEHICLE SEARCH (78%); TRAFFIC
ACCIDENTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (72%); FIRE
DEPARTMENTS (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (70%); COCAINE
(67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man Charged in Wife's Killing Is Barred From Talking to Anyone but Lawyer

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 896 words


A judge denied bail on Monday to a Manhattan man accused of strangling his
estranged wife six years ago and covering up the crime, then took the unusual
step of barring the defendant from speaking to anyone except his lawyer -- a
move intended to prevent him from sending messages to witnesses.

The decision by the judge, Justice Bonnie G. Wittner of State Supreme Court in
Manhattan, was the latest twist in the investigation of Roderick Covlin, who was
arrested and charged last week with murdering his estranged wife, Shele
Danishefsky Covlin, a 47-year-old finance executive, in 2009.

Arguing against bail, a prosecutor portrayed Mr. Covlin -- a destitute
professional backgammon player -- as a desperate man who was facing financial
ruin and the loss of his children because his wife wanted a divorce. He was
willing to take violent steps to get custody and inherit his wife's fortune, the
prosecutor, Matthew Bogdanos, said.

''The financial situation the defendant was facing at the time, coupled with the
custody battle, was truly moving over him like a Damocles sword,'' Mr. Bogdanos
said.

Even after Ms. Danishefsky Covlin's death, Mr. Covlin, 42, continued to scheme
to gain control of his daughter, who along with his son ended up being placed in
the custody of his parents, Mr. Bogdanos said.

In December 2013, Mr. Covlin plotted to kidnap his daughter, who was 13, the
prosecutor said. In a recorded telephone call played in court, Mr. Covlin
described how he intended to abduct the girl at a sleepover party and take her
to Mexico, where he would pay someone $10,000 to marry her in a maneuver to
emancipate her from her grandparents. ''Once someone is married, whether they
are 18 or not, they have all the rights of an 18-year-old,'' he said on the
tape.

Mr. Covlin's lawyer, Robert C. Gottlieb, said the unproven allegation that his
client had plotted to kidnap his daughter could be explained as the foolish
brainstorming of a man frantic to regain custody of his children, rather than a
plan to gain control of their inheritance.

Mr. Gottlieb said his client was innocent of the murder and contended the
prosecution had nothing but circumstantial evidence.

The prosecutor conceded that the evidence against Mr. Covlin was circumstantial
but argued it was nonetheless compelling.

''The only person who had the unparalleled motive, the unfettered opportunity
and the undeniable means is the defendant,'' Mr. Bogdanos said.

Ms. Danishefsky Covlin was found lying lifeless in the bathtub of her Upper West
Side apartment on 68th Street on Dec. 31, 2009. Her daughter made the discovery.

Mr. Covlin had been in a bitter struggle with his wife over the children and
their divorce, the prosecutor said. She had filed for divorce in May 2009, and
he had moved into an apartment across the hall. A martial arts expert, he made
some money as a professional backgammon player, but survived off her salary and
his parents' largess.

As the year wore on, he tried to sabotage his wife, telling her employers she
was a drug addict and filing a false accusation that she had sexually abused
their 3-year-old, the prosecutor said. A matrimonial judge ordered him to stay
away from her and limited his visits with the children, but he frequently
flouted this and had access to the apartment, Mr. Bogdanos said.

The initial investigation was hampered because Ms. Danishefsky Covlin was buried
for religious reasons before an autopsy could be done, Mr. Bogdanos said.

There was evidence, the prosecutor said, that Mr. Covlin misled investigators
about how he learned of her death and had staged the tableau in the tub to make
it look like an accident. Other evidence suggested he later entered the
apartment and tampered with the crime scene, Mr. Bogdanos said.

An autopsy was performed on Ms. Danishefsky Covlin's exhumed remains in April
2010. The results left no doubt that she had been throttled during a violent
struggle, Mr. Bogdanos said. Her neck had been squeezed with such force that it
fractured the hyoid bone. There was bleeding in her right eye. Two ribs were
dislocated.

Ms. Danishefsky Covlin had worked for more than two decades in financial
planning, most recently as a senior vice president for private wealth management
at UBS. She also had $3.6 million in life insurance policies, which was put into
a trust after her death, Mr. Bogdanos said. Mr. Covlin tried unsuccessfully to
persuade the courts to give him the interest on those accounts.

Her relatives filed a wrongful-death lawsuit asserting he was responsible for
her death. A bitter court fight between his family and hers ensued over custody
of the children.

Mr. Covlin's parents eventually won, yet even they insisted that Mr. Covlin
remain barred from seeing his children without supervision. Mr. Bogdanos said
the defendant had tried to use intermediaries to reach out to his daughter. On
one occasion, he ''solicited the sexual abuse of a minor,'' Mr. Bogdanos said.

Justice Wittner heard arguments about that episode in a robing room to protect
the identity of the minor. Afterward, she said she would grant the prosecution's
request that Mr. Covlin be barred from speaking to anyone except his lawyer
while in jail.

''Who else had the motive? Who else had the opportunity? If you credit the
medical examiner's findings at autopsy, it's a very powerful case,'' she said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/nyregion/manhattan-man-charged-in-wifes-killin
g-is-barred-from-talking-to-anyone-but-lawyer.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAIL (90%); JUDGES (90%); MURDER (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (89%);
DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (89%); CHILDREN (88%); LAWYERS (78%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); WITNESSES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SUPREME
COURTS (73%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cosby Faces New Suit for Saying Accuser Lied

BYLINE: By SYDNEY EMBER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 467 words


A New Hampshire woman who accused Bill Cosby last year of drugging and sexually
assaulting her in 1965 has sued the entertainer, contending that he wrongly
branded her a liar after she came forward.

In a federal lawsuit, filed on Monday in Massachusetts, Kristina Ruehli says Mr.
Cosby, through his former lawyer Martin D. Singer, defamed her in a statement he
released after Philadelphia Magazine published an article last November about
her accusations.

In her suit, Ms. Ruehli, 72, says she met Mr. Cosby in 1965, when she was a
22-year-old secretary at a talent agency. She contends that Mr. Cosby invited
her to his home, where he gave her drinks and she later passed out. After ''an
unknown period of time,'' the suit says, she regained consciousness and found
herself lying on a bed, naked, with Mr. Cosby trying to force her to give him
oral sex. Mr. Ruehli says she became nauseated and vomited. Based on her
experience and the accounts of other women, she says, she now believes Mr. Cosby
had slipped a drug into her drink.

Mr. Cosby, 78, who has been accused by dozens of women of sexual assault, also
faces three other defamation suits, filed by women in California, Massachusetts
and Pennsylvania. He has denied all wrongdoing and has never been charged with a
crime.

Ms. Ruehli says in the lawsuit that she came forward to support other women who
had decided to accuse Mr. Cosby publicly. After her accusations were published
in the magazine, the suit says, Mr. Singer released a statement in which he
called the women's accusations ''unsubstantiated, fantastical stories about
things they say occurred 30, 40, or even 50 years ago.''

Ms. Ruehli says that Mr. Singer's reference to ''even 50 years ago'' was
directed at her. Mr. Singer's statement is also cited in the suits brought in
Massachusetts and Pennsylvania.

Andrew Wyatt, a spokesman for Mr. Cosby, said the entertainer's legal team had
no comment at this time.

Ms. Ruehli's lawyer, Megan C. Deluhery, said in a statement that ''Ms. Ruehli
stands ready to tell her story, under oath, to a jury of her peers and allow
them to pass judgment and affirm that Ms. Ruehli's account, like so many others,
is true, and the only other person in the room that night in 1965 surely knows
it.''

New accusations and lawsuits against Mr. Cosby have been surfacing since July,
when excerpts from a deposition he gave in a 2005 civil case became public. In
the deposition -- for a case brought by Andrea Constand, who said Mr. Cosby had
drugged and molested her -- he comes off as a cavalier playboy who
unapologetically pursued women for sex and obtained powerful sedatives to use as
party drugs.

According to Ms. Ruehli's suit, she offered to testify on behalf of Ms.
Constand, but the case was settled before Ms. Ruehli could be deposed.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/cosby-faces-new-suit-for-saying-accus
er-lied.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); LITIGATION (91%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); DATE RAPE
DRUGS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); LIBEL & SLANDER (90%); LAWYERS (78%); JURY
TRIALS (78%); WOMEN (78%); WITNESSES (77%); PARTY DRUGS (67%)

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Women's Use of Long-Acting Birth Control Methods Is Surging, U.S. Agency Reports

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 446 words


WASHINGTON --  The share of American women on birth control who use long-acting
reversible methods like intrauterine devices and implants has nearly doubled in
recent years, the federal government reported Tuesday.

The share of women on birth control who use the devices rose to 11.6 percent in
the period from 2011 to 2013, up from 6 percent in 2006 to 2010, according to
the National Center for Health Statistics. The share is still smaller than for
the pill (26 percent) or condoms (15 percent), but it is the fastest-growing
method. In 2002, just 2.4 percent of women on birth control in the United States
used the long-acting methods.

Women's health advocates say long-acting birth control is giving American women
more say over when -- and with whom -- they have children. About half of the 6.6
million pregnancies a year in the United States are unintended, and health
experts contend that broader use of long-acting methods could help reduce that
number, because the methods work better than other types.

The methods are effective because, unlike the pill, a diaphragm or condoms, they
do not require a woman to take action to work. Although an early incarnation,
the Dalkon Shield, introduced in the 1970s, had disastrous results, the modern
devices are safe and have been increasingly promoted by doctors. Last fall, the
American Academy of Pediatrics published guidelines that for the first time
singled them out as a ''first-line'' birth control option for adolescents,
citing their ''efficacy, safety and ease of use.''

About 62 percent of women in the United States use birth control, according to
the report, which draws on data from a nationally representative federal survey.

The use of long-acting birth control was driven by a surge in the use of
intrauterine devices. About 10.3 percent of women on birth control reported
using those devices in 2011 to 2013, and about 1.3 percent used implants.

Use was roughly the same across educational groups, the report found. Use of
long-acting methods was lower among black women. About 8.6 percent of black
women used long-acting methods, compared with 15.1 percent of Hispanics and 11.4
percent of whites.

Female sterilization, the second most popular method after the pill and used by
about a quarter of all women on birth control, was far more common among women
with less education. About 40 percent of women with just a high school diploma
or the equivalent used that method, compared with about 15 percent of women with
a bachelor's degree or higher. In contrast, the pill was used by about a third
of women with a college degree or more but by just 13 percent of women with a
high school degree or less.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/health/use-of-long-acting-birth-control-method
s-surges-among-us-women.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTRACEPTION (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%);
WOMEN (90%); CHILDREN (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); OBSTETRICS &
GYNECOLOGY (78%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); PEDIATRICS
(73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION GRADUATION (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); HIGH SCHOOL
EQUIVALENCY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS (54%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Years Later, Bittersweet Victory

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ANALYSIS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1168 words


Alysia Montaño, an American 800-meter runner, woke up early in Valencia, Calif.
Knowing the World Anti-Doping Agency was releasing the findings of its
extraordinary inquiry into doping and corruption in Russian track and field, she
devoured the details of the report in bed as soon as she awoke.

And then she began to cry.

''My hands were shaking,'' she said by telephone on Monday. ''Anger, sadness,
relief, all of it. I just got a rush of emotions. I can't even pinpoint all of
them. At first you think of all the moments you lost, and then you feel, 'Oh my
gosh, well, thank you.' Then you are mad. I was sweating. I just broke out in a
sweat, thinking, Is this real? Are they actually going to do something?''

The answer at this deeply demoralizing point for track and field appears to be
yes, and it must be yes after all the institutional rot that Dick Pound's
committee confirmed and exposed in its 323-page report. Cover-ups of positive
tests. Extortion. More than 1,400 destroyed samples. It is no wonder Pound's
independent committee has recommended Russia be suspended from track and field
competition, including next year's Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, until it proves
it can play and test fair.

But for Pound to say he was surprised was quite an admission, considering that
he was part of the Canadian delegation when the 100-meter champion Ben Johnson
tested positive at the 1988 Olympics and later led the International Olympic
Committee investigation into the Salt Lake City corruption scandal.

Montaño, still competing at age 29 after giving birth to a daughter last year,
agrees with the push to ban Russia. She also believes she deserves some medals
after finishing fourth in the 800 meters at the 2011 world championships, fifth
in the 2012 London Olympics and fourth again at the 2013 world championships. In
all those cases, she finished behind Russians who now face lifetime bans from
the sport.

''Absolutely I deserve that bronze medal,'' Montaño said of her Olympic race.
''Even if I don't get my podium moment, it's still a symbol of my work and also
this time in history.''

Montaño said she was convinced her Russian rivals were doping in London, and the
WADA report concluded as much. It called Russia's inaction on expeditiously
dealing with flags in the biological passports of Mariya Savinova, who won the
gold, and Ekaterina Poistogova, who took the bronze, ''unexplained and highly
suspicious.''

''When you go back and watch the race,'' Montaño said, ''and you see someone
literally watching the race behind you, kind of jogging, and you are putting out
max effort, and they kind of just walk past you, put their hands in the air and
are like 'Yay!' and you are on the ground, huffing and puffing and about to
throw up, you are like, 'Are you kidding me?' But you can't speak up until you
have evidence. You just come off as a sour apple.''

But missing the podium in London cost her more than sleep. It cost her money.
''Maybe half a million dollars, if you look at rollovers and bonuses, and that's
without outside sponsorship maybe coming in,'' she said. ''That's not why you're
doing it, but you still deserve it.''

There have been too many dark times in her sport's history, too many
high-profile busts that should have solved the major doping problem for good but
turned into false dawns: Johnson in 1988, or the American sprinter Marion Jones
and the Bay Area Laboratory Co-operative in the 2000s.

You can say this for track and field: It takes down its biggest stars. The
trouble is that outside prodding and enterprise are too often required.
''Obviously, it's sad that it took a big investigative report for them to do
something,'' Montaño said, praising -- as Pound had -- a groundbreaking German
television documentary by ARD that brought the Russian doping to light last
year.

But what makes this round of scandal more egregious is the degree of cynicism
and venality. If it is proved that Lamine Diack, who served for 16 years as
president of track and field's governing body, the International Association of
Athletics Federations, did indeed demand bribes totaling more than one million
euros in order to suppress positive doping tests, then the corruption went
straight from the top to the track. And what would make it all the more
unforgivable is that Diack spent much of his mandate defending his federation's
record on antidoping, most recently when he commandeered the microphone to make
a rambling, closing remark on the subject at his farewell news conference in
Beijing in August.

The French authorities, who have placed Diack under criminal investigation on
suspicion of corruption and money laundering, will have the final word on his
involvement. But Montaño does not sound nearly as surprised as one would expect
her to be.

''I try not to think about the most negative thing, but when I heard it, I
thought that sounds about right,'' she said. ''The I.A.A.F. is a corrupt
organization. So this says everything anyone has ever assumed, if you want to
use the word assumed. But it's the truth. You can't assume the truth.''

The question now -- with the latest hurricane over and the beach covered with
broken trust and debris -- is how the I.A.A.F. and Russia will clean up. It
seems imperative that WADA's leadership heed the Pound committee recommendation
and declare Russia noncompliant with the WADA code at its board meeting next
week. It seems imperative that the I.A.A.F. act with equal alacrity to ban
Russia from track and field competitions.

Sebastian Coe, who succeeded Diack as I.A.A.F. president in August, already is
facing calls to step down. Coe was vice president of the I.A.A.F. for eight
years before securing the top spot, and he spent many an hour in Diack's company
without -- so Coe insists -- the slightest inkling of Diack's suspected criminal
behavior.

''I will do whatever it will take to fix this,'' Coe told Britain's Channel 4 on
Monday. ''I have the full support of the sport, and I will do this.''

It is tempting, very tempting, to conclude once and for all that international
sports federations have no business testing and sanctioning their own athletes,
their own meal tickets. Even in a best case, the appearance of conflict still
exists.

Giving a more neutral organization like WADA full responsibility for testing
international-level athletes is one solution. The shift could be financed by
pooling existing antidoping resources and by increasing the money supplied by
the I.O.C. and national governments. But that tack, too, carries a risk. Who
then monitors WADA?

''I think we need to look at an outside doping agency, people that aren't
related to the sport,'' Montaño said. ''We need someone who is a biochemist and
all they are into is the lab report.''

Whatever the changes, they will come too late for Montaño to get her rightful
Olympic moment or reward. She still has lofty goals, however.

''I'd really like to race,'' she said, ''in the women's human 800-meter clean
athletes final.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/olympics/years-later-bittersweet-victor
y-for-alysia-montano.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alysia Montaño was fifth in the women's 800 at the 2012
Olympics. A World Anti-Doping Agency report has detailed doping in Russian track
and field. (B10)
 Mariya Savinova of Russia winning the women's 800 at the London Games. Alysia
Montaño of the United States is at far left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (B13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); RUNNING (90%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (90%); TRACK &
FIELD (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); CONTROLLED
SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES
(78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); WALKING & JOGGING (78%); 2016 RIO SUMMER
OLYMPICS (77%); SCANDALS (73%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (70%); PASSPORTS &
VISAS (64%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (54%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Things They Carry

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 730 words


Kennedy Odede is one of the most joy-filled people I've met.

He grew up in the Kibera slum in Nairobi. With his American wife, Jessica
Posner, he created a school for girls and a community organization called
Shining Hope for Communities, or Shofco, there.

My eldest son worked at the school a few summers ago and I've gotten to know
Kennedy's mischievous laughter during his trips to the U.S.

But I just read ''Find Me Unafraid: Love, Loss and Hope in an African Slum,''
the gripping book Kennedy and Jessica wrote together about their lives.

You meet somebody in adulthood and you think the person you know is the one who
was always there. But when I read about Kennedy's childhood, it was like
descending into some unexpected pit.

When Kennedy was 3 his cherished grandmother died after she was bitten by a
rabid dog. The family moved to a Nairobi slum where they lived with constant
hunger and complete poverty.

His drunken stepfather beat him constantly; when he was 5 the beating was so
relentless, all the feces escaped from his body.

When he was 8, his best friend died, maybe of malaria. Driven by hunger, Kennedy
once tried to steal a mango from the market. The crowd beat him savagely (this
is how mob justice sometimes works in Kibera) and would have killed him if a
stranger hadn't intervened.

To survive he joined a street gang. He did some street crime, armed and unarmed.
Driven by hunger, his best friend tried to steal a purse and was beaten to death
by a mob. Another friend tried to rob a store with a toy pistol and was killed
by the police. Kennedy found another friend; the friend hanged himself at age
17.

Kennedy briefly got to attend a church school, but the priest would lock him in
a room and molest him each week. Two of his sisters were raped and impregnated.

During ethnic violence, four of his best friends were essentially castrated and
left to bleed to death.

I could go on, but you get the idea.

Reading all this I kept wondering: How did this delightful man emerge from this
horrific childhood? In a future column I'll describe the research on how some
people survive trauma, but for now I'll let Kennedy speak for himself. Here's an
abridged version of an email he sent me over the weekend:

''While I didn't have food, couldn't go to school, or when I was the victim or
witness of violence, I tried to appreciate things like the sunrise -- something
that everyone in the world shares and can find joy in no matter if you are rich
or poor. Seeing the sunrise was always healing for me, it was a new day, and it
was a beauty to behold.

''There were times when my pain led me to do things I'm not proud of. I did
drugs like sniffing glue and petrol. But eventually I learned a trick: Replace a
negative addiction with a positive. I replaced my addiction to drugs and alcohol
with an addiction to books, which also provided me a much needed escape.

''I grew to know that no situation lasts forever. I used to tell myself that
even when the day felt dark, eventually the light would somehow come. Nothing is
constant.

''For every bad person I encountered who hurt me and caused me suffering and
pain, I also met a lot of good people. For the priest that abused me, I met a
man of God who saved my life on the day I stole a mango and was almost beaten to
death (he paid back the mango's price and more).

''My mom taught me that while there is a God, that one God might be very busy,
so we have to rely on the people we encounter in our life who become what she
called 'small gods.'

''As a child, I knew how much my mom loved me. She was often in hard situations
herself, but I knew she believed in me, she thought I was special, and I never
gave up because I knew how much my mom wanted for me, and how much her love for
me often cost her (beatings from my stepdad, suffering herself).

''When I was on the streets as a child I thought of what my mom had told me,
that no matter where I was in the world, if I could see the stars I should know
that she could see them, too, and I felt her love always.

''Finally, Shofco saved my life and helped me to remain positive even when the
worst happened. It made me feel not like a passive victim, but like I had agency
and power to change what was happening in my community.

''I think starting Shofco also gave me a sense of the power of 'ubuntu,' feeling
connected to a universal humanity.''




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/opinion/the-things-they-carry.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLUM DWELLINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES
(90%); SINGLE SEX EDUCATION (77%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (77%); POVERTY &
HOMELESSNESS (73%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MALARIA (70%); HOMICIDE
(69%); SEX OFFENSES (68%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (68%); BITES & STINGS
(67%); DOGS (67%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (61%); STEPPARENTS (52%)

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (88%)

COUNTRY: KENYA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Foray Into the Mediterranean

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1111 words


Many Americans, when faced with a serious health risk like high cholesterol, opt
to take a pill rather than adopt healthier living habits.

A middle-aged woman I know is typifies this attitude. Thrilled with how well
medication has controlled her rising cholesterol level, she continues to indulge
in foods rich in cholesterol-raising saturated fats. She also carries around
more body fat, especially risky abdominal fat, than is considered healthful.

Dr. Philip Greenland, a cardiologist and epidemiologist at Northwestern
University Feinberg School of Medicine, said, ''People should be following a
heart-healthy diet, keeping their weight under control and exercising regularly.
This would be a highly preferable approach. Unfortunately, it's not the
direction we're going in.''

Admittedly, swallowing a little pill every day is simpler than changing one's
behaviors -- and especially one's eating habits.

Yet experts like Dr. Greenland say that even when taking a statin or some other
cholesterol-lowering drug, changes in diet and exercise habits are needed to
maximize the drug's benefits. He and others insist that drugs should be a last
resort, after lifestyle changes fail to lower serum cholesterol adequately.

Although a heart-healthy diet cannot control a soaring cholesterol level in
everyone (yours truly is an example), it may have many benefits beyond
protecting against heart attacks and strokes. According to Dr. Stephen L.
Kopecky, a preventive cardiologist at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota, one of two
states in which heart disease is not the No. 1 killer (Colorado is the other),
there is no better approach to healthful eating than the Mediterranean diet.

Noting that ''every food a person might eat either fights or contributes to
disease,'' Dr. Kopecky said his clinic ''tries to get everyone on a
Mediterranean diet,'' the traditional eating habits of people living in Greece
and southern Italy. In addition to its heart benefits, studies suggest the
Mediterranean diet may ''reduce the risk of Alzheimer's disease, cancer,
Parkinson's disease, diabetes, arthritis and the metabolic syndrome,'' Dr.
Kopecky said.

A patient education booklet prepared by the Mayo Clinic points out that ''people
in Greece eat an average of nine servings a day of antioxidant-rich fruits and
vegetables,'' and the booklet outlines a long list of potentially healthful
foods. Some examples include prunes, blueberries, red grapes, oranges,
strawberries, kale, spinach, brussels sprouts, broccoli, beets, red bell
peppers, corn and eggplant.

At a minimum, Americans should strive to consume two or more servings of
vegetables and two to three or more servings of fresh fruit each day. If
''fresh'' is not available, ''fresh frozen'' is the next best option.

People living near the Mediterraneans eat lots of seafood, often daily, and the
Mayo booklet recommends three or more servings a week of fish or shellfish. One
or more servings should be a fatty fish rich in protective fish oils, like
salmon, tuna, bluefish, sardines, mackerel and trout.

The white meat of chicken or turkey, eaten without the skin, is the land animal
protein of choice, the Mayo Clinic says, with a serving size limited to 3 ounces
of cooked meat, about the size of a deck of cards.

Unlike many Americans, people living along the Mediterranean also consume lots
of foods with vegetable protein: legumes like split peas, lentils and peanuts,
and beans like lima, black, red, kidney and navy. However, in preparing these
foods, it's important to avoid using highly saturated pork fat. Also, don't
overdo peanuts, which are high in fat, albeit unsaturated fat, and pile on the
calories.

A daily quarter-cup serving of tree nuts like walnuts, hazelnuts and almonds or
seeds like sunflower and sesame are good choices for snacks or crunchy
enhancements in prepared dishes.

Whole grain breads and cereals are part of the recommended diet, but note that a
serving of bread is one slice. Breads should be eaten plain or dipped in olive
oil, the Mayo booklet says.

Which brings us back to fats. Olive oil, especially extra-virgin and virgin, the
least processed forms, or canola oil should be used in place of butter or
margarine, both in cooking and at the table. Avoid all hydrogenated and
partially hydrogenated oils and saturated fats.

Eggs are back in fashion, consumed in moderation. That means a limit of three to
four egg yolks a week, though there is no limit on egg whites. A good trick when
preparing an omelet or scrambled eggs is to use two egg whites for every one
yolk.

Chocolate lovers should stick to dark chocolate with at least 50 percent cocoa,
information that should be on the label.

However, red and processed meats should be limited to one three-ounce serving a
week. And those cherished treats and desserts -- pastries, cakes, doughnuts,
cookies, pudding, French fries, potato chips and all sweetened and diet
carbonated soft drinks -- are best avoided altogether. Carbonated water is fine.
So is wine, especially red wine, with a daily limit of five ounces for men and
three ounces for women consumed with a meal.

Likewise, avoid high-fat dairy products, including whole and 2 percent milk,
butter and ice cream, and limit the consumption of cured and fatty cheeses to
one serving a week -- about the size of four dice.

I recently discovered a delicious alternative to cream cheese and Neufchâtel.
It's a creamy mixture of fat-free Greek yogurt and cream cheese with only three
grams of fat and 60 calories in two tablespoons. Look for it where regular cream
cheese is sold.

Of course, what you eat is only half of the health-saving story. Regular
physical exercise is a critical ingredient, even if it doesn't result in weight
loss.

''Fitness trumps fatness,'' Dr. Kopecky said, adding that being fit even while
remaining fat markedly reduces cardiovascular risk.

He urges parents to establish heart-healthy habits early in their children's
lives. ''Patterns for physical activity are set by ages 6 to 9, and healthy
eating habits by ages 9 to 12; together, they can result in a much lower risk
for developing heart disease as adults,'' he said.

This is the second of two columns on lowering cholesterol.

Related:

For Statins, Cholesterol Care May Be Just the Start

Nutrition Panel Calls for Less Sugar and Eases Cholesterol and Fat Restrictions

High Cholesterol Takes Its Toll Over Time

For more fitness, food and wellness news, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or
sign up for our newsletter.

This is the second of two columns on lowering cholesterol.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/11/09/before-taking-medication-some-experts-s
uggest-foray-into-mediterranean/

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL ROGERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOLESTEROL (95%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); NUTRITION (90%);
DIETING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEART DISEASE (89%); CENTRAL NERVOUS
SYSTEM DRUGS (89%); CARDIOLOGY (89%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (89%); FRUITS &
VEGETABLES (88%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); OILS & FATS (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR
DRUGS (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); STROKES
(73%); CANCER (72%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (72%); BIOCHEMISTRY (71%); EPIDEMIOLOGY
(71%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (64%); DIABETES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); MAYO CLINIC (54%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GREECE (68%); MEDITERRANEAN (53%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Europe; Russia: Official Says Long-Delayed Deal to Sell Iran Missiles Remains in
Force

BYLINE: By IVAN NECHEPURENKO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 243 words


Russia's most senior arms executive said Monday that a contract to supply Iran
with powerful S-300 air defense missiles was now active. But with no delivery
date or any other details, the announcement seemed aimed more at warding off an
Iranian lawsuit than a major step toward delivery of the weapon system.

Sergei V. Chemezov, Russia's chief arms trade executive, made the announcement
at an air show in Dubai, Russian news agencies reported. ''The contract to
deliver the S-300 was not only signed by both sides, but has already come into
force,'' Mr. Chemezov was quoted as saying by the RIA Novosti news agency. The
initial contract to deliver the weapons was signed in 2007, before the current
international arms embargo against Iran was established. But the deal was
canceled in 2010 by Dmitri A. Medvedev, then Russia's president, under pressure
from the United States and Israel. In response, Iran filed a lawsuit claiming
breach of contract that could cost Moscow as much as five times the $800 million
value of the original deal. President Vladimir V. Putin reversed Mr. Medvedev's
decision in April, as a nuclear deal between Iran and the world powers began to
appear likely. But the system still has not been delivered. The hitch, military
experts say, is that Russia wants to keep the unfulfilled contract as a
bargaining chip in its relations with the West, perhaps with an eye to ending
economic sanctions imposed over its actions in Ukraine.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/europe/russia-official-says-delayed-deal
-to-sell-iran-missiles-remains-in-force.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%);
LITIGATION (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); CONTRACTS LAW (78%);
2015 IRAN NUCLEAR AGREEMENT (78%); ARMS EMBARGOES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%);
EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (73%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%)

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

STATE: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED ARAB
EMIRATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); UKRAINE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Europe; Germany: Police Investigate Killing of a Sea Lion at the Dortmund Zoo

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 97 words


The police were searching for suspects after a 21-year-old sea lion named Holly
was found beaten to death in her enclosure in the Dortmund Zoo. Its director,
Frank Brandstaetter, told the dpa news agency on Monday that the sea lion, who
had been a crowd favorite, was found Friday morning by workers. The other six
sea lions in the cage were unharmed. The police say an autopsy found the
animal's skull had been smashed and that she was missing three teeth. A hole was
found in a fence near the sea lion enclosure, but the police said they did not
yet have any suspects in the attack.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/europe/germany-police-investigate-killin
g-of-a-sea-lion-at-the-dortmund-zoo.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%);
HOMICIDE (90%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); AUTOPSIES (88%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Economies Could Face Recession, O.E.C.D. Says

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 88 words


A slowdown in international trade could be a harbinger of a new recession for
the world's leading economies, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said on Monday. In its world economic outlook, the O.E.C.D. says
declining rates of trade seen this year had ''in the past, been associated with
global recession.'' It projected global trade growth at 2 percent this year,
improving to 3.6 percent next year. Over all, it predicted the world economy
would grow 2.9 percent this year and 3.3 percent next year.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/world-economies-could-face-recession-
oecd-says.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%);
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT (88%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH
(88%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (84%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fraternity Files $25 Million Suit Against Rolling Stone

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 152 words


The University of Virginia fraternity that was the focus of a debunked Rolling
Stone article about a gang rape filed a $25 million lawsuit against the magazine
on Monday, saying the article made the fraternity and its members ''the object
of an avalanche of condemnation worldwide.'' The complaint, filed in
Charlottesville Circuit Court, also names the article's author, Sabrina Rubin
Erdely, as a defendant. It is the third complaint filed in response to the
November 2014 article: Three individual fraternity members, who are now
graduates, are suing for at least $225,000 each, and a university associate dean
who claimed she was portrayed as the ''chief villain'' is suing the magazine for
more than $7.5 million. A Rolling Stone spokeswoman, Kathryn Brenner, said the
magazine had no comment. Rolling Stone has since retracted the article, and the
magazine's managing editor and Ms. Erdely both apologized.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/media/fraternity-files-25-million-sui
t-against-rolling-stone.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (94%); LITIGATION (92%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES &
SORORITIES (90%); WRITERS (88%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (91%)

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Colorado: Referendum on Universal Health Care Is Set

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | ROCKIES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 104 words


Supporters of universal health care have gathered enough signatures to put their
plan on Colorado ballots next year, the state said Monday. The question would
make Colorado the first state to opt out of the federal Affordable Care Act and
replace it with universal health care. Vermont lawmakers passed universal health
care in 2011, but abandoned it three years later as too expensive. Backers say
employers would pay about 7 percent of a worker's wages into the system, with
workers paying about 3 percent. They say the plan would cost $3 billion a year
but would save $9 billion. Skeptics say costs would run out of control.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/colorado-referendum-on-universal-health-car
e-is-set.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%)

STATE: VERMONT, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: Donations for Fence Fall Millions Short

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTHWEST; Pg.
14

LENGTH: 80 words


State lawmakers who hoped to build fencing along the Mexican border using
private donations are instead directing the money to buy equipment for the
Cochise County sheriff's office after the state received just a tiny fraction of
the donations needed. The decision was made Monday by the Legislature's border
security advisory committee. Republican backers of the 2011 legislation hoped
for as much as $50 million in private money for the project; the state received
about $265,000.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/arizona-donations-for-fence-fall-millions-s
hort.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT
(90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); SHERIFFS (87%); NATIONAL SECURITY (85%)

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wisconsin: Bankruptcy Plan Settles Abuse Claims

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | MIDWEST; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 128 words


A reorganization plan for Milwaukee's Roman Catholic archdiocese that will
distribute $21 million to hundreds of clergy sex abuse victims was approved
Monday by a federal bankruptcy judge, bringing to a close a long-running and
emotional case. The plan confirmed by Judge Susan Kelley splits most of the
money among 355 people. An additional 104 victims will get about $2,000 each.
There are also provisions for victim counseling. Shortly before the approval,
Archbishop Jerome E. Listecki addressed the court, repeating his apology and
expressing his hope that ''we have turned the corner in the history of the
archdiocese.'' Several victims have said they wished settlement amounts had been
larger and that they wanted to see a deeper investigation of abuse claims.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/wisconsin-bankruptcy-plan-settles-abuse-cla
ims.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); INSOLVENCY &
BANKRUPTCY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); JUDGES
(90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS
(88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (88%)

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (88%)

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Childhood: Animal Exposure Aids Asthma

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS BAKALAR

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 260 words


Exposure to dogs or farm animals in early childhood significantly reduces the
risk for asthma, a large study has found.

Researchers prospectively followed more than 650,000 children born in Sweden
from 2001 to 2010. They recorded exposure to dogs and farm animals and assessed
the risk for asthma in school-age children at age 6 and in preschoolers between
the ages of 1 and 5. The study is in JAMA Pediatrics.

Compared with children who had no exposure to farm animals, the rate of asthma
was 52 percent lower in school-age children and 31 percent lower in preschoolers
who lived on farms.

Living with dogs had a weaker effect. Compared with children without dogs,
school-age children who lived with dogs had a 13 percent lower risk of asthma,
and children 3 and older had a 10 percent reduced risk. There was no association
of dog exposure with asthma in children under 3.

''Families that have a child shouldn't worry about getting a dog,'' said the
lead author, Tove Fall, an associate professor of epidemiology at Uppsala
University. She warned, though, that ''if you have an allergic child, you
shouldn't get a dog and imagine that it will cure the allergy -- it could make
it worse.''

Although the researchers controlled for many factors, including parental asthma,
other unknown variables could be involved, and the exact mechanism remains
unknown.

For more fitness, food and wellness news, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or
sign up for our newsletter.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/11/06/an-early-whiff-of-dogs-or-hogs-may-less
en-asthma-risk/

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (92%); ASTHMA (92%); ANIMALS (92%); CHILDREN (90%); STUDENTS &
STUDENT LIFE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); PETS (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (73%);
WRITERS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS
(52%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(54%)

COUNTRY: SWEDEN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Patterns: Lowering Malpractice Suits

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS BAKALAR

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 245 words


Some doctors practice ''defensive medicine,'' ordering extra tests and
procedures believing this will ward off malpractice suits. A new study suggests
that it does.

Using data on 24,637 physicians and more than 18 million hospital admissions in
Florida between 2000 and 2009, researchers found that the more a hospital
billed, the less likely the doctor was to be sued.

For example, among the one-fifth of general surgeons who billed the least, the
rate of malpractice claims was 2.3 percent, while among the one-fifth who billed
the most, the rate was 0.4 percent.

Even after controlling for demographic factors and patients who had more than
one disease, the association persisted across all specialties. The researchers
also found that doctors who were high spenders one year were consistently high
spenders the next.

The study, in BMJ, demonstrated an association, not cause and effect, and it is
impossible to know if a doctor's spending was motivated purely by a desire to
avoid malpractice suits.

The lead author, Dr. Anupam B. Jena, an associate professor of health care
policy at Harvard Medical School, wrote in an email message: ''Our findings
suggest that health care reform efforts designed to get physicians to reduce
utilization may be met with sluggish opposition if the unintended effect of
reduced utilization is increased malpractice risk for the physician.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/11/04/defensive-medicine-may-lower-malpractic
e-risks/

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (94%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); MEDICAL
MALPRACTICE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); SUITS &
CLAIMS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); HEALTH CARE
REFORM (73%); WRITERS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); COLLEGE &
UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Prevention: Statins May Dampen Flu Shot

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS BAKALAR

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 245 words


Statins, the cholesterol lowering drugs, may weaken the effect of the flu
vaccine, two new studies suggest.

One analysis, led by Dr. Steven Black of the Cincinnati Children's Hospital,
used data from a larger study of the 2009-10 and 2010-11 flu seasons.
Researchers measured blood concentrations of flu antibodies in 5,584 vaccinated
people older than 65 who used statins and 1,377 who did not. In those taking
statins, antibody concentrations, depending on the type of flu virus, were
between 38 percent and 67 percent lower.

The second study involved 137,488 people, most under 65, and found that
vaccinated people taking statins were more than 11 percent more likely to get a
respiratory disease severe enough to seek medical care than people who weren't
on statins. The researchers suggest that the beneficial anti-inflammatory
properties of statins decrease the immune system's response to the flu vaccine.
Both studies are online in The Journal of Infectious Diseases.

The lead author on the second study, Saad B. Omer, an associate professor at the
Emory Vaccine Center in Atlanta, said that nothing in these studies should lead
to immediate changes in practice.

''Even with the diminishing effect, flu vaccines remain the most effective tool
to prevent influenza, including in the elderly,'' he said. ''They're not
perfect, but nobody should skip their flu vaccine.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/11/04/statins-may-dampen-response-to-flu-vacc
ine/

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (97%); INFLUENZA (94%); ANTIVIRALS (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS
(90%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (90%); IMMUNOLOGIC
FACTORS (90%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%);
CHOLESTEROL (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (88%); VIRUSES (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE
(73%); WRITERS (67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Seedy at Times, but Also Bountiful

BYLINE: By DWIGHT GARNER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 914 words


One drawback of American journalism is that newspapers and magazines don't have
hotel critics. Into this cultural void steps Reginald Edward Morse, the hero of
Rick Moody's new novel, ''Hotels of North America.''

Reginald -- no one seems to call him Reggie -- is a top reviewer on
RateYourLodging.com. Little gets past his bloodshot eyes. At the Viking Motel in
Eugene, Ore., for example, he slumps to the floor in a moment of loneliness and
inebriation and can't help noticing the ''dust, blood, seminal fluid, Ritz
Crackers, and insect parts'' mulched into the carpet. It's the kind of grainy
detail for which readers prize his posts.

This is Mr. Moody's best novel in many years. It's a little book, a bagatelle,
but it's a little book of irony and wit and heartbreak. It is insightful on
topics like the joy of stockpiling hotel hair-care products while also asking
the big questions, such as, ''Which man among us is not, most of the time,
possessed of the desire to curl himself into a fetal ball?''

Mr. Moody is best known for ''The Ice Storm'' (1994), his very good novel (it
became a very good movie) about the crack up of two suburban Connecticut
families over a Thanksgiving weekend in 1973. It entered the phrase ''key
party'' into the popular lexicon of after-dinner entertainment nightmares.

Since ''The Ice Storm'' Mr. Moody has written four novels, including ''Purple
America'' (1997), ''The Diviners'' (2005) and ''The Four Fingers of Death''
(2010). Each had sustained flashes of mental lightning. Each also made the sound
of a writer trying too hard to impress. In ''Hotels of North America'' he eases
back on the throttle, and his engine begins to purr.

This novel is related as a series of hotel reviews. Reginald, who is in his 50s,
moves around the country, and sometimes internationally, for his work as a
midrate motivational speaker. Sometimes he recounts stays in rather fancy
places, like the Groucho Club in London.

More often he's reduced to crashing in hotels with bulletproof glass in the
lobby. One review is about sleeping in his car in an Ikea parking lot in New
Haven.

Reginald has hit hard times. He's divorced. He has a daughter he rarely sees.
His credit cards are frequently declined. This novel visits a series of
indignities upon him: subpoenas, sleep apnea, car crashes, electronic keys that
fail to work, the sounds of a prostitute at work in the next room over.

He and his girlfriend haven't abandoned their Robin Leach dreams of infinity
pools and Champagne, however. They are determined scammers and, in Mr. Moody's
telling, funny ones.

''Many are the cons that are available to the motel guest who wishes to arrive
at a more reasonable price for a room,'' Reginald declares, ''and over the years
we have tried variations on the Melon Drop, the Jamaican Switch, the Sex-Toy
Scam, etc., each refitted for the specific hotel or motel environment.''

The Melon Drop? The Jamaican Switch? The Sex-Toy Scam? It's cruel of Mr. Moody
not to tell us what these frauds entail. Each sounds like an Elmore Leonard
novel waiting to blossom.

We do read about a short con called the Nouvelle Cuisine, ''which involves
getting a dining recommendation, coming down with horrible food poisoning, and
then blaming the recommender for the illness.''

Reginald is a hard character to get a handle on. Sometimes he sounds like a New
Age twit. About his motivational speaking, he utters inanities like: ''I think
my overarching theme, if I were called upon to reveal one, would be You Can Do
It. I believe in a phrase like You Can Do It, I believe it is a phrase with an
energy emulsion.''

At the same time, he drives a used Saab, wears worn oxford cloth shirts and
putters about like a man out of a Loudon Wainwright III song. He deploys phrases
like ''causative locus,'' ''irremediable panniculus'' and ''cigar-chomping
hemorrhoidal bigot.'' The anti-abortion billboards in Alabama make him want to
throw himself under a bus. He is interestingly ambiguous.

You slowly come to realize he has a well-stocked if frantic mind. He was in
investment banking before he lost it all, apparently in the financial meltdown
of 2008.

At its heart, ''Hotels of North America'' is a close examination of the
middle-aged American male in sexual, emotional and financial free fall. Reginald
stifles his sobs in hotel breakfast nooks. He is unreligious yet finds himself
feeling ''myocardially close to God.'' Cialis commercials are, to him, absurdly
moving.

He speaks of himself, while in an online sex chat room, of course, as ''just
another guy sweating out droplets of desperation and heartache in the 21st
century.'' He feels hideous; he feels like he's melting. He tells us he has
''more body hair than a bonobo.''

This novel's elastic format -- short hotel reviews -- gives Mr. Moody a lot of
room to improvise and play, and play he does. He is terrific on the ''assisted
living'' décor at some hotels, the mustards and browns and soul-destroying
drapery. He is even better on the joints that seem to attract disgraced
politicians and ''collectors of serial-killer memorabilia.''

Reginald is a strangely noble screw-up. He reminded me a bit of Henry, the
reeling antihero in the poet John Berryman's ''Dream Songs.'' We can say about
Reginald what Berryman said of his man:

Henry got around.I can't say it improved himbut unquestionably it gave him some
to think about.

Hotels of North America

By Rick Moody

­198 pages. Little, Brown and Company. $25.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/books/review-in-hotels-of-north-america-rick-m
oody-examines-the-middle-aged-male-in-free-fall.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 Rick Moody's latest novel, ''Hotels of North America,'' examines the
middle-aged male in free fall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THATCHER KEATS) (C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS
(90%); JOURNALISM (89%); FICTION LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (78%); SLEEP
DISORDERS (64%); THANKSGIVING (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); TRAFFIC
ACCIDENTS (60%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (52%); CREDIT CARDS (50%)

CITY: EUGENE, OR, USA (72%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%)

STATE: OREGON, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Preparing for Jets, Ryan Finds Way to Needle Them

BYLINE: By MATT HIGGINS; Ben Shpigel contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 835 words


ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. --  Maybe it was sleep deprivation. Maybe it was the
excitement surrounding his return to the New York metropolitan region to face
his former team for the first time. But Buffalo Bills Coach Rex Ryan, normally a
champion talker, uttered a few uncharacteristic linguistic lapses and
malapropisms on Monday.

During remarks to the news media, he referred to his star receiver Sammy Watkins
as ''Sammy Williams.'' He talked about the possibility of nominating players
from Maryland to act as captains for the game.

''Where are we going?'' Ryan said when asked to clarify. ''Three hours of sleep.
... Are we playing Baltimore? How funny is that?''

But Ryan knew exactly where his team was headed: to the Meadowlands, where the
Bills (4-4) will take on the Jets (5-3) Thursday night in the first game between
the A.F.C. East division rivals since Ryan was fired by the Jets after the 2014
season and then hired by the Bills.

Although Ryan coached the Jets for six seasons, he and most of the Bills stuck
to a script that refused to acknowledge that the matchup would hold any added
personal significance.

''This is going to be a passionate game, it's going to be an exciting game,''
Ryan said, ''not for the reasons you may be thinking. This is strictly about us
against another opponent. Both teams are battling to try to get to the
playoffs.''

Ryan has only inflamed the passion by revealing that linebacker Ikemefuna
Enemkpali will serve as a Buffalo captain. Enemkpali was cut by the Jets in
August after he punched the starting quarterback Geno Smith and broke his jaw,
reportedly over a $600 debt. The Bills quickly signed him off waivers.

''If IK went out there by himself, maybe that would be a different statement,''
Ryan said, referring to Enemkpali's participating in the coin toss. ''But that's
not what we do.''

Ryan has a history of finding symmetry with opponents when selecting captains.
Against Miami he selected the starting offensive guard Richie Incognito, who was
dismissed by the Dolphins in 2013 as a result of a locker room bullying scandal.

Last month against Jacksonville, Ryan chose his offensive line, a nod to Doug
Marrone, who was the Bills head coach in 2014, and now serves as offensive line
coach for the Jaguars.

Still, Enemkpali is not a starter, and his selection seems intended to get under
the skin of the Jets and their fans.

''Everything is obvious,'' Enemkpali said. ''As far as me, I've just got to
prepare and get ready to play Thursday night.''

He acknowledged that there would be extra motivation to perform for Ryan, if not
for himself. ''He's a player's coach,'' Enemkpali said. ''He believes in every
player on this roster, and that's a guy you love to go out there and fight for
on Sundays every play.''

In the Jets' locker room, wide receiver Brandon Marshall, who joined the team
during the off-season, called Enemkpali's selection ''typical Rex.''

''That's a Rex Ryan move,'' Marshall said. ''Are you guys surprised?''

Marshall said he and the Jets would focus on football Thursday, and Coach Todd
Bowles said he had not considered whether to make Smith a captain.

There is more at stake for both teams than personal rivalry.

The Bills and the Jets ended two-game losing streaks Sunday and will be facing a
compressed schedule of two games in five days. The Bills defeated the Dolphins,
33-17, and the Jets held off the Jaguars, 28-23.

Both teams remain in the thick of the playoff race.

Buffalo center Eric Wood said that Ryan stressed blocking out the emotion of his
return to the Meadowlands in order to be ready mentally and physically for one
of the team's few games in prime time.

''It's really tough on your body,'' Wood said of playing two games in less than
a week. ''It's really tough mentally from a game-planning standpoint.''

Still, he said, he enjoys the challenge of Thursday night games. ''We don't play
a ton of prime-time games, and it gives us a chance to show what we're about,''
Wood said.

After a run of injuries, Buffalo is relatively healthy. Running back LeSean
McCoy did not participate in practice Monday because of a sore shoulder, but he
has not been ruled out for Thursday. McCoy and the rookie running back Karlos
Williams rushed for a combined 222 yards against Miami. They can expect more
resistance from a Jets defense that leads the N.F.L. against the run, with an
average of 80 yards per game.

Buffalo's defense has underachieved, surrendering 353 yards per game -- 397 to
the Dolphins.

''We've got to be better than what we've been,'' Ryan said. ''Can we get better?
We think we will get a lot better.''

Ryan built his reputation with stout defenses while with the Jets.

''It was a great opportunity for me,'' he said.

As for the future, he would make only one prediction about his reception at
MetLife Stadium, and it concerned an unambiguous gesture.

''There will be a lot of waving out there -- with one finger,'' he said of the
fans. ''That much is a given. There's no doubt.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/sports/football/preparing-for-jets-ryan-finds-
way-to-needle-them.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rex Ryan during the Bills' game Sunday. Ryan will coach Buffalo
against his former team, the Jets, for the first time Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
GARY WIEPERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (77%); COACHES &
TRAINERS (77%); FACIAL INJURIES (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); BUFFALO BILLS (94%)

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (78%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Science Best Sellers

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 377 words


1 Being Mortal by Atul Gawande. Metropolitan/ Holt. The surgeon and New Yorker
writer considers how doctors fail patients at the end of life, and how they can
do better. (Last month's ranking: 2)

2 The Wright Brothers by David McCullough. Simon & Schuster. The story of the
bicycle mechanics from Ohio who ushered in the age of flight; by the author of
''1776'' and ''The Greater Journey.'' (1)

3 Do Unto Animals by Tracey Stewart. Artisan. A memoir and guide to how animals
live and how we can make their lives better.

4 Quiet by Susan Cain. Crown. Introverts -- approximately one-third of the
population -- are undervalued in American society. (8)

5 The Power of Habit by Charles Duhigg. Random House. An examination of the
science behind habits, how we form them and break them. (10)

6 Thinking, Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahneman. Farrar, Straus and Giroux. The
winner of a Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices. (9)

7 Working Stiff by Judy Melinek and T. J. Mitchell. Scribner. A memoir of a
young forensic pathologist's ''rookie season'' as a New York City medical
examiner.

8 David and Goliath by Malcolm Gladwell. Little, Brown. How disadvantages can
work in our favor, from the author of ''The Tipping Point'' and ''Outliers.''

9 The Body Keeps the Score by Bessel van der Kolk. Viking. A doctor explains the
neurological compensations that follow a wide range of emotional and physical
traumas.

10 Brief Candle in the Dark by Richard Dawkins. Ecco. A sequel to the prolific
scientist's memoir, ''An Appetite for Wonder.''

11 What If? by Randall Munroe. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. Scientific (but often
humorous) answers to hypothetical questions, based in part on the author's
website, xkcd.com.

12 Elon Musk by Ashlee Vance. Ecco/HarperCollins. A technology writer follows
Musk's life from his difficult South African childhood to his involvement in
Internet start-ups like the rocket company SpaceX.

The titles ranked here are selected by the Science Times editors from all adult
nonfiction books reported to The New York Times for the month. These titles are
fundamentally based on the sciences; those for which science is more tangential
or peripheral are generally excluded. Rankings reflect sales for October 2015.




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE
(89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS
(77%); PATHOLOGY (73%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); FORENSICS (51%); STARTUPS (50%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR
PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: ELON MUSK (66%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                        The International New York Times

China International Capital Off to a Strong Start

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 326 words


HONG KONG -- Shares in China International Capital Corporation jumped 11 percent
in their Hong Kong debut on Monday before ending the day up 1.1 percent, as
investors snapped up the bank amid optimism over mainland markets.

The strong start for China International Capital, China's oldest domestic
investment bank, was helped by China's decision on Friday to resume initial
public offerings after a four-month halt, a move likely to improve investment
banks' revenues. And the showing sets a positive benchmark for a host of other
companies lined up to list.

''The timing of the reopening had been a closely monitored exercise by the
market. There are hundreds of companies keen to go public,'' said Ringo Choi,
Asia-Pacific I.P.O. leader at the consulting firm EY in Hong Kong. ''This is a
milestone for them, showing that the market has stabilized.''

The bank's stock surged as high as 11.38 Hong Kong dollars, or $1.47, per share,
compared with a 0.4 percent gain in the benchmark Hang Seng index. The $811
million initial public offering was priced at 10.28 dollars per share, the top
of its marketing range.

''The price of C.I.C.C. is good, as we expected,'' the bank's chairman, Ding
Xuedong, said at the listing ceremony as bank employees cheered every time the
stock price ticked higher. Mr. Ding is also chairman and chief executive of
China's sovereign wealth fund, C.I.C., or China Investment Corporation.

China's major stock indexes opened up after regulators said they would allow
initial public offerings to resume.

Established in 1995 as a joint venture by China Construction Bank, the Singapore
sovereign wealth fund GIC and Morgan Stanley, China International Capital will
use the funds raised from the I.P.O. to expand equity sales and its trading and
wealth management businesses, as well as international subsidiaries.

It counts the global private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and TPG Capital
Management among its shareholders.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/business/international/china-international-cap
ital-off-to-a-strong-start.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT
BANKING (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (89%); PRIVATE
EQUITY (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (77%);
MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%);
CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (64%)

COMPANY: CHINA INTERNATIONAL MARINE CONTAINER LTD (92%); KKR & CO LP (63%);
CHINA CONSTRUCTION BANK CORP (59%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); TPG CAPITAL LP (52%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (63%); 0939 (HKSE) (59%); MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336212 TRUCK TRAILER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3715 TRUCK TRAILERS
(92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE
(63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (59%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC
(59%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS,
DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING
COMPANIES (52%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (52%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (91%); ASIA (79%); SINGAPORE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The $100 Million Club

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 184 words


Here are the nine other works that have sold for more than $100 million at
auction, not adjusted for inflation, according to Christie's:

$179.4 million -- Pablo Picasso, ''Les Femmes d'Alger (Version 'O')'' (1955),
oil on canvas, 2015, Christie's New York

$142.4 million -- Francis Bacon, ''Three Studies of Lucian Freud (in 3 parts)''
(1969), oil on canvas, 2013, Christie's New York

$141.3 million -- Alberto Giacometti, ''L'homme au Doigt'' (1947), bronze with
patina and hand-painted, 2015, Christie's New York

$120 million -- Edvard Munch, ''The Scream'' (1895), pastel on board, 2012,
Sotheby's New York

$106.5 million -- Pablo Picasso, ''Nude Green Leaves and Bust'' (1932), oil on
canvas, 2010, Christie's New York

$105.4 million -- Andy Warhol, ''Silver Car Crash,'' 2013, Sotheby's New York

$104.2 million -- Pablo Picasso, ''Garçon à la Pipe'' (1905), oil on canvas,
2004, Sotheby's New York

$103.9 million -- Alberto Giacometti, ''L'homme Qui Marche'' (1960), bronze,
2010, Sotheby's London

$100.9 million -- Alberto Giacometti, ''Chariot'' (1950), painted bronze, 2014,
Sotheby's New York




URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%); CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (91%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT
SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Modigliani Work Sells for $170.4 Million, Joining a Rare Club

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN and SCOTT REYBURN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 920 words


In an overheated art market where anything seems possible, a painting of an
outstretched nude woman by the early-20th-century artist Amedeo Modigliani sold
on Monday night for $170.4 million with fees, in a packed sales room at
Christie's. It was the second-highest price paid for an artwork at auction.

The painting became the 10th work of art to reach nine figures under the hammer.
The bidding was palpably tense, with six people vying for the lot, and it took
nine minutes to sell, with the winning bid coming from a Chinese buyer on the
phone.

The seller of the Modigliani, Laura Mattioli Rossi, the daughter of the Italian
collector Gianni Mattioli, was guaranteed at least a $100 million minimum price.
Just before the sale, Christie's announced that a third party had stepped
forward to share the risk -- as well as any proceeds above the guaranteed price.
The night's sale of 34 lots brought $491.4 million.

An arresting pop art work by Roy Lichtenstein, ''Nurse,'' from 1964, also defied
expectations, selling for $95.4 million, with fees, to another phone buyer, well
above its $80 million estimate -- despite the lack of a ''speech'' or ''thought
bubble'' that typically drives up the price of Lichtenstein works. ''Nurse''
reached a new price level for Lichtenstein at auction. Christie's also shared
that guarantee with a third party.

But it was Modigliani's 1917-18 canvas, ''Nu Couché,'' that was the star lot
around which Christie's built its themed ''Artist's Muse'' auction, designed to
attract international buyers of the world's most expensive art. With some
collectors concerned about a bubble in the market for so-called cutting edge
contemporary art, investment-conscious buyers have been looking for blue-chip
names from earlier periods. Modigliani nudes are regarded as among the ultimate
trophy paintings of the 20th century.

The price was a high for Modigliani at auction, beating the $70.7 million paid
in New York last November for his 1911-12 sculpture ''Tête.'' His ''Portrait de
Paulette Jourdain,'' from around 1919, sold for $42.8 million at Sotheby's sale
of the A. Alfred Taubman estate last week, well over its estimate of $25
million.

Among the notable collectors and celebrities at Christie's were the fashion
designer Valentino (''I came as a spectator,'' he said) and Eli Broad, the
philanthropist.

The New York collector Peter Brant pronounced the sale ''really strong,''
adding: ''They curated it and they did a good job. Some of the prices were very
high.''

Monday's sale assuaged concerns that the Modigliani painting would be too risqué
for some collectors.

''This painting leaps off the page as the most vibrant, sexual, lyrical of the
catalogue raisonné,'' said Ana Maria Celis, a Christie's specialist in postwar
and contemporary art.

In its preview exhibition, Christie's positioned the Modigliani near Lucian
Freud's painting of his nude daughter Bella, ''Naked Portrait on a Red Sofa.''

The sale propelled Modigliani into the $100 Million at Auction Club, whose
members include Picasso (three times), Bacon, Giacometti (three times), Warhol
and Munch. It also represented a far cry from the prices being asked for the
Italian artist's work in his own brief and unsuccessful lifetime (he died of
tuberculosis in 1920 at age 35).

In the winter of 1918-19, a desperate Modigliani offered to sell the entire
contents of his Paris studio -- which may well have included Christie's ''Nu
Couché'' -- to the British writers Osbert and Sacheverell Sitwell, for 100
pounds, or $300 (roughly $4,700 today). According to John Pearson's 1978 book,
''Facades: Edith, Osbert, and Sacheverell Sitwell,'' the aristocratic brothers
could not raise the cash.

Christie's ''Artist's Muse'' sale was a more conventional follow-up to the
company's unorthodox ''Looking Forward to the Past'' auction in May, with
offerings handpicked by the young Christie's specialist Loic Gouzer. That sale
brought $705.9 million from 35 lots, including $179.4 million for Picasso's 1955
painting, ''Les Femmes d'Alger (Version 'O').'' In that sale, 97 percent of the
lots sold, compared with 71 percent at Monday night's sale.

But Brett Gorvy, Christie's worldwide chairman of postwar and contemporary art,
said he was very satisfied with the results, and especially with the ''very
strong Asian participation throughout the sale,'' adding, ''This demonstrates a
very dynamic market for the Masterpiece level.''

''The mood is about confidence,'' he said. ''There's more than enough liquidity
in the market.''

Both of the themed auctions have relied heavily on Christie's guaranteeing
minimum prices to coax top-quality works from owners, an increasingly common but
risky practice that can leave auction houses with expensive unsold works.

''These sales have a logic to them, and they've been a success,'' David
Nisinson, a New York-based collector and adviser, said. ''The market for modern
and contemporary has essentially become the entire art market. If they continue
to attract very major property we may see more sales with this approach.''

Other observers were more skeptical, suggesting that the formula was wearing a
little thin the second time around. The ''Muse'' theme was elastic enough for
Christie's to include the 1981 Andy Warhol silk-screen painting, ''Gun.'' It
sold for $11.9 million, with fees, just under the high estimate.

''A Warhol 'Gun' painting? How was that his muse?'' the New York dealer Henry
Zimet said. ''But if they can get away with it, good luck to them.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/arts/with-170-4-million-sale-at-auction-modigl
iani-work-joins-rarefied-nine-figure-club.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Modigliani's ''Nu Couché'' (1917-18) is the 10th artwork to sell
for nine figures at auction. (PHOTOGRAPH VIA CHRISTIE'S)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ECONOMIC
BUBBLE (78%); PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); PRICES
(78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (64%); FASHION DESIGN (63%); FASHION
DESIGNERS (63%); FASHION & APPAREL (60%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%)

PERSON: A ALFRED TAUBMAN (57%); ELI BROAD (50%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (66%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Astronauts Needed: NASA Wants to Make Mars Your Corner Office

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 226 words


Many childhood dreams come to nothing, but here is a chance to make one come
true: For the first time in four years, NASA is looking for more astronauts.

With crewed launchings of American rockets expected to resume and future
missions in the planning stages, the space agency said the job openings would be
posted on the federal government's USAJOBS website on Dec. 14.

The annual salary ranges from $66,026 to $144,566. But the right stuff involves
more than just wanting the job: Requirements include a bachelor's degree in
engineering, science or mathematics, as well as good eyesight. The application
deadline will be in February, with the final selection in May 2017.

NASA does not have a target for the number of new astronauts it will select.
''Generally it's eight to 14,'' said Tabatha Thompson, a NASA spokeswoman.

They will be joining an exclusive club. Currently, the agency has 47 active
astronauts. That is less than one-third the number at the height of the space
shuttle program in 2000, and down from 61 in 2011. Still, the uncertain future
of a career in space has not proven discouraging.

The last call for applications, in October 2011, brought in more than 6,300
applications. In 2013, NASA announced that eight of them had been selected, an
acceptance rate of about 0.13 percent.

The odds of getting into Harvard are much higher.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/science/space/astronauts-needed-nasa-wants-to-
make-mars-your-corner-office.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES
(90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); SPACE SHUTTLE (73%); SPACE INDUSTRY (72%); WAGES
& SALARIES (72%)

STATE: MARS (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ask Well

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN REYNOLDS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 368 words


Question:

How does foot size affect running efficiency? Is there an advantage that
counteracts the additional weight of a larger foot?

Answer:

Running efficiency, like fuel economy in cars, reflects how well your body uses
energy at any given speed and can be affected by many traits, including body
weight and how it is distributed.

In general, according to a comprehensive 2004 overview of factors that influence
running economy, ''carrying mass distally increases the aerobic demand of
running to a greater extent than carrying mass closer to the center of mass.''
In other words, extra weight around your middle will not slow you as much as the
same weight on your feet.

Specifically, the researchers wrote, adding about two pounds of additional
weight to your body's core could reduce your running efficiency by about 1
percent; adding that same amount to your feet likely drops your efficiency by
around 10 percent, which is a good reason to look for lightweight running shoes.

Of course, even a sizable foot encased in a heavy shoe is unlikely to weigh two
pounds more than the typical foot.

An ''average male human foot has a mass of about 1,000 grams,'' or 2.2 pounds,
said Rodger Kram, a professor of integrative physiology at the University of
Colorado at Boulder who studies the biomechanics of running.

Add 100 grams, or about 3.5 ounces, to that foot, which would be the equivalent
of about a shoe size or two, and you would probably lose about 1 percent in
efficiency, he says, compared with someone whose foot size is average.

So the real-world decline in efficiency among runners with oversize feet is
small, he said.

At the same time there do not seem to be any offsetting advantages to large feet
for runners. (This is not the case for swimmers who can flap large feet like
flippers -- Michael Phelps reportedly wears a size 14 shoe.)  Large feet have
not been shown to help runners push off, for instance, or otherwise propel
themselves forward more powerfully.

But in a very close sprint finish, a larger foot conceivably might enable you to
win by a toe over a daintier-footed opponent.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/11/06/ask-well-does-foot-size-affect-running/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNNING (89%); ATHLETES (78%); BIOMECHANICS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
PROFESSORS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL PHELPS (50%)

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Trial, a Fading Mafia Ready for Its Close-Up

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD; Sarah Maslin Nir contributed reporting, and Alain
Delaquérière contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2417 words


After he had helped pull off one of the biggest cash robberies in American
history -- the Lufthansa heist of 1978 -- and stashed millions of dollars, along
with burlap sacks of gold chains, crates of watches, and diamonds and emeralds,
in his cousin's basement, Vincent Asaro thought first about the code: Protect
the family.

''He says, 'We got to be real careful now,''' his cousin testified. '''Don't
spend anything. Don't buy anything major.'''

He kept quiet, but another part of Mr. Asaro, a Mafia yeoman working his way up
through New York's Bonanno crime family, could not resist. He bought a Bill
Blass-model Lincoln and a Formula speedboat -- symbols of a man who wanted to
belong.

Mr. Asaro did not realize his world was vanishing.

Born in 1935, he entered the same business as his father and grandfather, also
Mafia members: a company man even if the company business was murder and
extortion. Growing old, Mr. Asaro stayed in his old neighborhood in Queens,
shopping at Waldbaum's, sticking with the routines he knew.

By then, though, other organized crime groups were squeezing out the New York
Mafia with new, sophisticated businesses. More devastatingly for him, Mr.
Asaro's friends, superiors and even a relative began informing on him to the
government -- providing the material that allowed prosecutors to bring charges
after all these years, and shredding the Mafia code that defined his life.

Now 80, Mr. Asaro has spent the last three weeks in Federal District Court in
Brooklyn, the sole defendant in what may be one of the last big Mafia trials,
accused of crimes including a 1969 murder, the Lufthansa heist at Kennedy
International Airport -- a plot point in the Martin Scorsese movie
''Goodfellas'' -- other robberies and extortions. His arm tattoo has been
covered up by sweaters. It reads, ''Death Before Dishonor.''

In closing arguments, Elizabeth Macedonio, a defense lawyer, portrayed the
cooperating Mafia witnesses as liars, and Mr. Asaro as someone who, despite
years of being surveilled by federal agents, was never once caught doing
anything wrong.

The case, which went to the jury Monday evening, has depicted a Mafia life from
a time when the organization still ruled New York, drawn from testimony,
recorded conversations, wiretapped phone calls, court filings and F.B.I.
surveillance records going back 40 years. Vincent Asaro was brought down in his
old age by a violation of the codes he so embraced; his is the story of the
disappearing New York Mafia, and of a disappearing way of life.

Growing Up Fast

To get by around Ozone Park, Queens, in the 1950s and '60s, teenagers had to
figure certain things out pretty young. ''Down the hole'' was an Italian area on
the border with Brooklyn. Savvy lottery players picked lucky combinations from
the Daily News horse-race charts. And, several people testified, around the time
they became teenagers, they realized where the power in the neighborhood lay.

Peter Zuccaro, a Mafia associate who testified at Mr. Asaro's trial, got into a
fight over a customer's not paying for goods at the auto-parts shop where Mr.
Zuccaro worked. He was in danger until a Bonanno member intervened, a display of
the raw power he came to crave. ''It was the thing to do,'' he said. ''I wanted
to be a made member of organized crime.''

The five New York families each have a boss, an underboss and a consigliere
ruling them. Captains follow, then soldiers. Under that are associates, who are
not made, or inducted, members.

Salvatore Vitale, a former Bonanno underboss, explained the rules: You did not
cooperate with law enforcement. You did not sleep with another member's wife or
daughter. You could sell only pot, not other drugs.

Are the rules broken? an assistant United States attorney, Nicole M. Argentieri,
asked him.

''All the time,'' Mr. Vitale replied.

This was the family business Mr. Asaro seemed destined for. Anthony Ruggiano
Jr., whose father, known as Fat Andy, was a Gambino soldier, began noticing Mr.
Asaro when he saw him at Aqueduct or around the neighborhood. Fat Andy said that
Mr. Asaro was going to be a third-generation wiseguy, and ''thought it was a
great thing,'' Mr. Ruggiano testified.

By the 1960s, Mr. Asaro was known as an ''earner'' in the Bonannos, a
prosecutor, Lindsay Gerdes, said. His cousin Gaspare Valenti, a Bonanno
associate before he started cooperating with the government, testified about the
early crimes they committed together, like hijacking truckloads of Oleg Cassini
shirts. The ''scores'' were often at the direction of James Burke, a powerful
Mafia associate who was Irish. (In ''Goodfellas,'' Robert De Niro plays the
character based on Mr. Burke.)

In 1969, prosecutors said, Mr. Asaro graduated to murder.

One Sunday in 1969, Mr. Asaro and Mr. Burke met Mr. Valenti at a house Mr.
Valenti's father was building in Queens, bringing a sledgehammer and a shovel.
''Vinny came up the steps,'' Mr. Valenti testified, ''and said, 'We have to bury
somebody.''' Mr. Valenti thought he was joking; he was not. The body was that of
Paul Katz, a man Mr. Asaro suspected of being a government informant. Mr. Asaro
and Mr. Burke had strangled the man with a dog chain, according to Mr. Valenti.
Mr. Valenti said he helped them bury the body underneath the basement concrete.

In the late 1970s, Mr. Asaro was formally inducted into the Bonannos: Vinny
Asaro was a made man. Mr. Zuccaro recalled being at a club called Little Cricket
that night. When Mr. Asaro walked in, someone played a song called ''Wise Guy,''
and then ''the whole neighborhood knew,'' Mr. Zuccaro said. Soon, Mr. Asaro
would show he merited the honor.

Rolf Rebmann was working his usual midnight-to-7-a.m. shift at Building 26 at
Kennedy Airport on Dec. 11, 1978, when he heard a ''holler'' from outside the
terminal. His co-workers were upstairs in the lunchroom for their 3 a.m. meal
break, so Mr. Rebmann, a Lufthansa security guard, walked outside to see a man
standing near a black Ford van.

''I asked him if I could help him, and he said 'No,' and stuck a gun in my face
and told me to get in the van face down,'' Mr. Rebmann testified.

The assailants wanted Mr. Rebmann's keys to open the overhead door, and then
they walked him upstairs to the lunchroom. ''Somebody kept saying: 'Just do as
you're told, do as you're told. We don't want to hurt anybody.'''

Led by Mr. Burke, they had been tipped off to the valuable cargo shipments by an
airport employee.

They had pulled off what was then billed as the largest cash robbery in United
States history, stealing $5 million in cash and $1 million in jewels.

Gaspare Valenti, who testified he was one of the two men who attacked the
guards, said Mr. Asaro had allowed him to come. In planning sessions at the
Queens social club Robert's Lounge, Mr. Burke, Mr. Asaro, Mr. Valenti and
several other men looked over airport plans, and agreed to visit the terminal at
least twice to map out escape routes, Mr. Valenti testified.

Mr. Asaro drove Mr. Valenti to Mr. Burke's house the night of the robbery,
giving him a .38 hammerless pistol and an instruction: '''Anything happens, just
stand your ground and continue to do the robbery the best you can,''' Mr. Asaro
told him, Mr. Valenti testified. Mr. Asaro and Mr. Burke said they would wait in
a decoy car a mile away, and the others piled into a van and headed for the
terminal.

When they got into the vault, one of the robbers, Tommy DeSimone, took a box
from a shelf and stepped on it, Mr. Valenti testified. ''The yellow Styrofoam
popcorn popped out of the boxes, and Tommy put his hand in there, and he pulled
out two packages of money,'' Mr. Valenti said. ''Tommy says, 'This is it! This
is it!'''

After unloading the haul in Mr. Valenti's basement, Mr. Asaro left for Fat
Andy's social club. When Mr. Valenti, feeling ''euphoria,'' met him at Fat
Andy's, Mr. Asaro issued his warning to be careful. Mr. Asaro was: He stayed
away from Mr. Valenti for a while, kicked up $100,000 to his captain,
distributed jewelry to the Five Families to keep the peace and asked friends to
hold on to the cash so it wasn't in one place. He even worried that throwing out
the cardboard boxes that contained the cash might draw unwanted attention. So he
came up with the idea for Mr. Valenti to sell Christmas trees, so a cheery
bonfire would not look out of place.

He had reason for the concern. Headlines throughout that December blared about
the daring robbery, and by just after Christmas, agents from the Federal Bureau
of Investigation were watching Mr. Asaro visit Mr. Burke's house in Queens.

Style of the 1950s

In the years after Lufthansa, the participants who were still around had enough
money that they should have been able to stop working. Mr. Valenti got his
$750,000 share, as did Mr. Asaro. Most of the others were killed or disappeared
(deaths prosecutors attribute in part to Mr. Burke, who died in 1996 while
serving his sentence).

Mr. Asaro, smart enough to stay alive, aware enough not to talk too much about
Lufthansa, apparently still wanted a little fun. He gambled heavily, and started
a Rockaway Boulevard nightclub called Afters, which Mr. Valenti said was a
reference to ''After Lufthansa.''

Mr. Asaro acted, in some ways, as if it were the 1950s and the mob were at its
height. He placed bets at Aqueduct. He played handball and paddleball, poker and
Continental. He oversaw truck hijackings and armored-car robberies. In a series
of surveillance photographs, he seemed the picture of easy confidence. He even
waved at an F.B.I. agent one day, according to testimony.

But it was the 1980s, and the Mafia, after years of prosperity and influence,
was beginning a steep decline. The police and F.B.I. agents infiltrated the mob.
Federal prosecutors charged the bosses of the Five Families using a powerful
racketeering act, and four of the five were imprisoned (the fifth was killed
before trial). Suddenly, even friendly local politicians stopped supporting the
families.

On the other side, the Mafia was getting squeezed by crime syndicates from
Japan, Russia, Mexico and Eastern Europe doing drug trafficking, human
trafficking and arms dealing. The mob, though it still made money from extortion
and gambling, was not evolving, and neither was Mr. Asaro.

Into the 1990s, Mr. Asaro was still threatening neighborhood shops. An Ozone
Park resident, Guy Gralto, testified that when he opened his chop shop in the
1990s, Mr. Asaro asked for ''protection money.'' When Mr. Gralto could not pay,
Mr. Asaro hit him and said that ''when he was done with me my mother wouldn't be
able to ID my body,'' Mr. Gralto testified.

But as he grew older, his bosses considered Mr. Asaro ''hostile,'' as Mr.
Vitale, the former Bonanno underboss, put it. In the 1990s, the boss demoted Mr.
Asaro because ''he was abusing his leadership position by 'robbing' the
individuals who reported to him,'' and was low on money from too much gambling,
prosecutors wrote. Prosecutors do not name the mob boss in the papers, but the
details they give match those of Joseph C. Massino, who later began cooperating
with the government. Prosecutors discussed calling him to testify at Mr. Asaro's
trial, according to transcripts.

An enfeebled New York Mafia limped into the new millennium. One associate, Peter
Zuccaro, enthralled with the Mafia since he was a teenager, declined the offer
when he was told he was being made around 2000. ''I didn't need it,'' he said;
he began informing a few years later. In 2003, Mr. Vitale started cooperating
with the government, and helped convict more than 50 Mafia figures. That was
followed by a once-unthinkable betrayal. In 2005, a mob leader flipped for the
first time. It was Joe Massino, Mr. Asaro's onetime boss.

Mr. Asaro did not seem to question it when his cousin Gaspare Valenti, who had
been in Las Vegas and not speaking to Mr. Asaro, returned to New York and
befriended him in 2010. Mr. Valenti was secretly working with the F.B.I.

By then, Mr. Asaro was hobbling around trying to generate cash. ''I don't come
out early no more,'' Mr. Asaro said in 2010. ''Where am I going? I got no place
to go.''

Since his divorce in 2005, he had been on bad terms with his only son, Jerome, a
Bonanno captain. His jewelry had been in hock for two years. He still went to
Fat Andy's, where he had celebrated the Lufthansa robbery, but ''people hate me
in there: I don't pay my dues,'' he told Mr. Valenti, his cousin, in a
conversation Mr. Valenti recorded.

He tried to look sharp, though his idea of sharp by then was fresh sneakers and
a jacket from Kohl's. As other organized crime was getting ever more
sophisticated -- hacking into bank accounts, stealing identities -- Mr. Asaro
was still talking about small robberies and little shakedowns.

He worried he was so irrelevant he would be kicked out of the Mafia altogether.
''They're going to take my badge away. You're going to see, it's going to
happen,'' he told Mr. Valenti in 2011, according to a recording played in court.
By 2012, the group's waning membership was such that he told Mr. Valenti that he
was promoted to captain again. It did not change his fortunes. ''I ain't got a
penny. I swear to God. No gas. Twenty dollars can you lend me?'' he told Mr.
Valenti.

In 2014, the F.B.I. finally closed in, arresting Mr. Asaro at his girlfriend's
Howard Beach residence. Prosecutors charged him with racketeering conspiracy,
including the Lufthansa robbery and Paul Katz's murder, and extortion. Four
other Mafia members, including his son, were arrested the same day. They all
struck plea bargains. Mr. Asaro did not.

During the trial, which started in October, traces of Mr. Asaro's verve were on
display. He insisted on a clear line of sight to the turncoats, mouthing
obscenities as they testified. Some moments struck him as amusing -- when he
heard a tape of himself telling Mr. Valenti he had a ''face made of [expletive]
plutonium,'' he put his head in his hands and chuckled.

But the trial made it clear. Omertà was no more. People above him had flouted
the code, people below him had flouted the code, and the last one left was Mr.
Asaro clinging to his credo. He seemed angry and betrayed.

Partway through the trial, angry that his lawyers were not cross-examining more
aggressively, he asked to speak to Judge Allyne R. Ross of Federal District
Court. ''I just want some input in the case, your honor,'' he said. ''This is my
life. This is my life. I'm 80 years old.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/nyregion/trial-of-vincent-asaro-highlights-los
s-of-mafias-code-of-silence.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A surveillance photo of Vincent Asaro, whose racketeering trial
was filled with mob informers. (A1)
From left: Surveillance of Vincent Asaro at J&S Cakes/MVP Trucking in 1987, a
Brooklyn social club in 1989, James Burke's wake in 1996 in Queens, and a sports
club in 2013. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY U.S. ATTORNEY'S OFFICE -- EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW
YORK)
An area on the border of Brooklyn and Queens, ''down the hole,'' was once a
dumping ground for bodies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A stolen van in Brooklyn in 1978, believed to have been used in the Lufthansa
robbery at Kennedy Airport. James Burke, top right, a powerful Mafia associate
and Tommy DeSimone, one of the Lufthansa robbers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEN
MURRAY/ASSOCIATED PRESS
U.S. ATTORNEY'S OFFICE -- EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK)
 Vincent Asaro in younger days, in an undated image, and being escorted by
F.B.I. agents on Jan. 23, 2014, after he and four other reputed members of the
Bonanno crime family were arrested. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS)
(A24) MAPS: Vincent Asaro's Queens (A24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME (92%); TESTIMONY (89%); MURDER (88%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); WITNESSES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); CRIMINAL
OFFENSES (74%); HISTORY (73%); LAWYERS (71%); ADOLESCENTS (70%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (69%); JURY TRIALS (69%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (67%);
WIRETAPPING (60%); AIRPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%)

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111
SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION,
SCHEDULED (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Edinburgh Fringe Leader to Depart for Melbourne

BYLINE: By STEVEN MCELROY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 295 words


With her short hair, multiple ear piercings and penchant for wearing a leather
jacket, Kath Mainland gives off an aura of hipness that has long seemed
appropriate for her role in helping to oversee the Edinburgh Festival Fringe,
the enormous arts festival that pops up annually in the Scottish capital and
includes a lot of scrappy productions. But after seven years as chief executive
of the Edinburgh Festival Fringe Society, the organizational force behind the
event, Ms. Mainland is leaving. Beginning in February she will take over as
executive director of the Melbourne Festival.

''I love the Fringe and I have lived in Edinburgh for over 20 years because of
it,'' Ms. Mainland said in a statement. ''I'm immensely proud of the Fringe
Society staff and their achievements. I have had the opportunity to work with an
amazingly hardworking, imaginative and talented group of people.''

Ms. Mainland joined the society in 1991 as an administrative assistant and
became general manager of the Edinburgh International Book Festival in 2005
before taking on her current post in 2009. During her tenure,the Fringe has
grown steadily; the 2015 festival reported almost 2.3 million tickets sold, an
increase of more than 5 percent over the prior year. The number of productions,
too, has grown by more than 1,200 during her tenure. (The 2015 festival included
more than 3,300 shows in 313 venues, with 49 countries represented.)

In Australia, Ms. Mainland will join another new leader, Jonathan Holloway, who
has recently begun his tenure as artistic director there. And in Edinburgh,
where the 2016 festival will run Aug. 5-29, a search is under way for Ms.
Mainland's successor.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/11/09/kath-mainland-stepping-down-as-head
-of-edinburgh-fringe/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (92%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ARTS
FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); MIDDLE MANAGEMENT (74%);
MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (72%); TICKET SALES (71%)

CITY: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (92%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (87%)

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (87%); SCOTLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stapleton Album No. 1 After an Awards Boost

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 329 words


Never say that television time doesn't sell records.

After the Nashville singer-songwriter Chris Stapleton was the upset winner at
the Country Music Association Awards last Wednesday -- taking the male vocalist
and new artist prizes, and album of the year -- his debut record, ''Traveller,''
shot to No. 1 on the latest Billboard album chart. It had five million streams
and sold 153,000 copies in the week that ended Thursday, with its sales figure
up more than 6,000 percent from the week before, when it moved just more than
2,000 copies.

Back in May, when ''Traveller'' was released, it reached a peak of No. 14 on the
chart, and by September it had fallen off the Billboard 200 altogether. Mercury
Nashville, Mr. Stapleton's record label, reported that after his honors at the
C.M.A.'s last week, all of his remaining tour dates ''sold out within hours.''

Country albums make up the next two spots of the album chart as well. Carrie
Underwood's ''Storyteller'' (19/Arista Nashville) holds at No. 2 in its second
week out, and Eric Church's new ''Mr. Misunderstood'' (EMI Nashville) opened at
No. 3.

Vol. 56 of the pop compilation series ''Now That's What I Call Music!'' bowed at
No. 4, and the Weeknd's ''Beauty Behind the Madness'' (XO/Republic) fell two
spots to No. 5 in its 10th week on sale. Taylor Swift's ''1989'' (Big Machine),
which stayed in the Top 10 for its entire first year of release, fell this week
to No. 11, in its 53rd week on the chart.

Also this week, Adele had another strong showing for her new single, ''Hello.''
The song sold 635,000 downloads in its second week out -- just slightly less
than the 636,000 copies that Flo Rida's ''Right Round'' sold in February 2009,
which had stood for more than six years as the biggest week of downloads for any
song. That record was shattered by ''Hello,'' which in its first week out sold
more than 1.1 million.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/11/09/chris-stapleton-rides-c-m-a-s-to-a-
big-week-on-the-album-chart/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTRY MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%);
SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SONG WRITING (78%); RANKINGS
(76%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNTRY MUSIC ASSOCIATION (84%)

PERSON: CARRIE UNDERWOOD (58%); TAYLOR SWIFT (58%)

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (93%)

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Low-Lying Street Faces an Update

BYLINE: By MATT A.V. CHABAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1136 words


Despite what you might have heard, the cobblestones of the meatpacking district
still run red. But now it is with flecks of beef tartare and hibiscus cocktails,
the crimson soles of Louboutins and what looks like a blob of plasma but is
actually red paint from one of the half-dozen artists' stalls that followed the
Whitney Museum downtown.

Some venerable butchers remain: Weichsel Beef, Louis Zucker & Company and the
London Meat Company, crammed into the city-run Gansevoort Meat Market
cooperative tucked under the High Line. Everywhere else it is shops and clubs,
and quite a few new office buildings -- each one ''distressed'' like a pair of
$300 jeans -- for Armani, Google, Lexus, Samsung, even the mysterious data
analytics company Palantir Technologies.

Clothing hangs in place of carcasses, hacking code is becoming the dominant
industry, and jackhammers and drills far outnumber meat hooks. Despite the
area's being declared a landmark in 2003, it is one of the hottest real estate
markets in New York. Some 200,000 square feet of office and retail space have
been built in the past three years, with three times that amount on the horizon.

What, then, to make of the diminutive block of Gansevoort Street?

With its low-slung market-style buildings, metal awnings and battered bricks, it
is one of the most recognizable spots in the city for location scouts, tourism
bureaus and Instagram users. It is also one of the few in the district to remain
unchanged. So far.

A decade ago, Jared Epstein, a vice president at the development firm Aurora
Capital Associates, began walking his dog through the meatpacking district. He
fell for the neighborhood as only a real estate type could.

''I just love the history and the beautiful architecture and the streetscape,
which is almost European,'' Mr. Epstein said in an interview last week. ''When I
came upon Gansevoort Street, and I heard it had a single owner, I was just
amazed. What an opportunity to transform an underutilized block.''

After years of negotiations, he persuaded the strip's longtime owners, William
Gottlieb Real Estate, to form a partnership.

Shops and restaurants had already replaced the meatpackers, but rather than
simply installing nicer ones in refurbished storefronts, they, like many
developers working nearby, wanted to expand their buildings skyward, if only by
a few stories. On Tuesday, they are to present their plans to the Landmarks
Preservation Commission.

For neighbors and preservationists, the proposal is no small matter.

To them, this is the only block of its kind in the district, with a high
concentration of prewar market-style buildings. Whereas the rest of the
neighborhood is a zigzag of shapes, sizes and styles, the south side of
Gansevoort Street is lean and flat, an architectural anomaly.

''I'm not sure there's any other block like this in the city, and to lose it
would be a real tragedy,'' said Zack Winestine, a filmmaker and founder of the
group Save Gansevoort, who has lived on neighboring Horatio Street since 1988.

So does an unspectacular yet wholly unique row of buildings render the block
between Greenwich and Washington Streets sacrosanct, or is it out of place? With
everything around it being transformed, is that all the more reason to redevelop
the strip, or to rescue it?

Complicating this preservation conundrum, the developers' proposal might not
have looked out of place a century ago. How Gansevoort Street got to be the way
it is today is in many ways a time capsule of the entire district.

The early 20th century was a time of great change in the city, and in this
neighborhood especially. Chelsea Piers, the Manhattan Refrigeration Company, the
High Line and the Holland Tunnel all combined to make it the perfect place for
meatpacking. By the Depression, meatpackers had begun to dominate the area, and
once the financial crash hit, they began to transform it.

Health code restrictions made it illegal to rent out apartments above abattoirs,
and with funds short and foreclosure rampant, landlords started chopping their
otherwise empty tenements in half, demolishing the top two or three stories to
create shorter market-style buildings. This meant less space to maintain and
chill and, more important, a lower tax assessment.

In the span of two years, from 1938 to 1940, 10 of 11 buildings on the south
side of Gottlieb's block were cut down, creating the Gansevoort Street of today.
The developers are proposing to maintain the two most historical and intact
market buildings while replacing the other three with buildings that rise four,
six and eight stories.

The fight is as much about what era as which buildings should be preserved.

''Do we want to celebrate a low point for this neighborhood, or do we want to
celebrate its constantly changing character, which has and continues to make it
so vital?'' said Harry Kendall, a principal at BKSK, the architecture firm
designing the project.

And this is Manhattan, where skyscrapers are seemingly everywhere -- including,
in this case, just across Washington Street.

Still, residents, as well as a few landlords, are already worried about
Gansevoort Street, given what happened when Aurora and Gottlieb first teamed up.

Two years ago, the pair set out to redevelop 9 Ninth Avenue, the old Pastis
building. Initial plans called for office space on the upper floors of their
expanded 70,000-square-foot property. Instead, a deal was struck to have a vast
Restoration Hardware fill the building. With a few exceptions, city regulations
prohibit stores larger than 10,000 square feet in the area, but this is being
billed not as a shop but as a ''flagship'' design center, as Mr. Epstein put it.

''They have not been the best neighbors,'' said Andrew Berman, executive
director of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation.

There are additional restrictions on the Gansevoort block, established in 1984
and meant to protect meatpackers, forbidding office and hotel tenancies. For
now, Mr. Epstein said he would pursue only allowed tenants, like art galleries,
nonprofits and, theoretically, butchers.

''It's just a battle we didn't want to fight at this time,'' he said. ''We do
hope that down the road, the community realizes that office tenants would be
beneficial to the neighborhood.''

The developers even argue their sole ownership of the block is better for
preservation, because if there were five different owners, each one would
probably want a bigger building, as is their right.

''For Aurora Capital and Gottlieb Real Estate, the financial aspect is by far
secondary to the aspirations the partnership has to positively impact the
neighborhood,'' Mr. Epstein said. ''Believe me, we have enough money, so it's
really not about that.''

Email: appraisal@nytimes.com

Twitter: @MC_NYC




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/nyregion/after-an-up-and-down-history-gansevoo
rt-street-could-grow-taller-again.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top: Gansevoort Street. From left, Andrew
Berman, executive director of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic
Preservation
Zack Winestine, a filmmaker and member of the Save Gansevoort community group
 and Elaine Young, a retired real estate broker and a member of Save Gansevoort.
A new office building rises in the meatpacking district, a hot market.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMON HASSAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (89%); ANIMAL
SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES
(77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); NEW CONSTRUCTION (75%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (75%);
FASHION DESIGNERS (74%); MEAT STORES (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); HISTORIC
SITES (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Louisiana Inmate Can Be Tried 3rd Time for Killing of Guard, Court Rules

BYLINE: By ASHLEY SOUTHALL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 504 words


A federal appeals court ruled on Monday that Louisiana could keep an inmate
locked up for the 1972 murder of a prison guard and said prosecutors may try him
a third time for the killing.

The three-judge panel of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit decided 2 to 1 to reverse a lower-court ruling ordering the
release of the inmate, Albert Woodfox, and barring state prosecutors from
retrying him. Mr. Woodfox has served more than 40 years in solitary confinement.

In their opinion, the prevailing judges also said Judge James Brady of United
States District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana had abused his
discretion when he forbade the state to mount a new trial.

Mr. Woodfox's lawyer, George Kendall, said in a statement that he and his client
were ''extremely disappointed'' with the court's decision.

Mr. Woodfox has been convicted twice for the stabbing death of the prison guard,
Brent Miller, 23. Both convictions were overturned on constitutional grounds.

Mr. Woodfox, 68, is the last imprisoned member of a group known as the Angola
Three, politically active prisoners who spent decades in solitary confinement in
the Louisiana State Penitentiary, known as Angola. One member was released in
2001; another was released in 2013 and died three days later.

The state reindicted Mr. Woodfox each time his conviction was overturned, and
did so for a third time in February after a federal appeals court upheld a
decision to vacate his second conviction.

Judge Brady in June ordered Mr. Woodfox's immediate release, saying the case
presented ''exceptional circumstances'' that cast doubt on the ability of the
state to fairly retry him.

State prosecutors won an emergency motion to keep Mr. Woodfox in jail while they
pursued an appeal.

Mr. Woodfox's second conviction was overturned last November after his lawyers
argued that racial discrimination in the selection of the jury at the time of
his 1993 indictment had violated his due process rights.

Judge Brady identified the state's failure to eliminate the discrimination in
the second trial as one of seven factors in his decision to bar a new trial. But
the two judges from the Fifth Circuit disagreed.

''The factors identified by the District Court as 'exceptional circumstances' do
not merit an unconditional writ and improperly assume that state courts will not
provide Woodfox with a fair retrial,'' they said.

The dissenting judge, James L. Dennis, agreed with Judge Brady that the state
had failed to remedy the problem of racial discrimination. Judge Dennis noted
that more than a dozen witnesses, including the state's only purported
eyewitness to the murder and two alibi witnesses for Mr. Woodfox, were no longer
alive.

''Clearly, the wrongful harm done to Woodfox, not only as a litigant but also as
a human being by his two unconstitutional convictions and his egregious four
decades of solitary confinement, cannot be rectified by the usual remedy of
reversal and reprosecution,'' Judge Dennis wrote.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/angola-inmate-can-be-tried-3rd-time.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (93%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (92%); APPELLATE
DECISIONS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); CORRECTIONS (91%); APPEALS (91%);
CORRECTIONS WORKERS (90%); MURDER (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%);
CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); PRISONS (89%); EYEWITNESSES (89%); JAIL SENTENCING
(78%); LAWYERS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); DUE PROCESS
(78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); JUDGES (78%); HOMICIDE
(78%); ALIBI (74%); JURY DUTY (73%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (68%); RACE & RACISM
(67%); DISCRIMINATION (67%)

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (95%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Risks of Assisting Evolution

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH ALTER.

Elizabeth Alter is an assistant professor of biology at City University of New
York, York College.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 938 words



THERE are four locked doors guarding a specialized lab at the Harvard School of
Public Health. The doors are meant to prevent insects inside the lab from
venturing out -- which is essential, because researchers behind those doors are
re-engineering mosquitoes by cutting and pasting bits of DNA with tools
unimaginable a decade ago.

If researchers can figure out the right combination of genes, they'll
manufacture a mosquito resistant to malaria, which could save hundreds of
thousands of lives every year. But geneticists, bioethicists and others who
understand the implications of this new technology are apprehensive. To an
astonishing degree, these new tools, which include a technique called
Crispr-Cas9, allow us to bend evolution to our will. But will we harness these
new technologies to help our planet? Or spark an ecological catastrophe?

In university labs, corporate R&D centers and even inside amateur D.I.Y.
laboratories, researchers are creating genetically modified organisms at an
unprecedented pace. This biotechnological revolution is so fast-moving that it
hasn't yet fully filtered into the public's awareness or policy makers'
oversight. The implications of Crispr are now intensely debated by medical
researchers, especially since Chinese scientists used the method earlier this
year to modify human embryos. But there are few similar conversations about the
implications of these technologies for ecosystems, even though those impacts
will most likely be more transformative for our planet's future.

These new tools are much more precise and easy to use than past versions.
Researchers can cut and paste DNA into just about any animal, plant or fungus.
Whereas modified genes were once likely to be stamped out if by chance they made
it into the wild, today's technologies can supercharge a genetic chain reaction:
A technique called ''gene drive'' ensures a modified gene will be inherited with
nearly 100 percent success. This is valuable in making sure that a desirable new
gene, like one resistant to the malaria parasite, spreads once introduced into a
mosquito population. It also means a mistake can't easily be taken back.

As scientists, policy makers and citizens, we need to start debating how much
genetic tinkering we should allow in the wild and what regulations need to be in
place. On the one hand, these new tools could help us cope with many risks to
humans and animals, including climate change. Coral could be buffered against
warming ocean water through the introduction of heat-tolerant genes. Genes from
successful species could be used to help rescue imperiled ones. The method could
be used as a form of molecular CPR, helping species adjust to our changed planet
more quickly than they could on their own.

But the ecological risks of these manipulations are real and poorly understood.
We can't fully predict the consequences of releasing self-propagating genes into
the wild. Encoding a self-destruct gene, for example by altering sex-determining
genes so the population eventually ends up entirely male, could be a way to
battle invasive species like zebra mussels or coral-destroying sea stars. But
such genes could potentially leak to places where these species actually play
important ecological roles -- and could even jump to other species through
interbreeding. Re-engineered genes that escape from crop weeds and spread as a
result of gene drive could devastate other ecosystems. Moreover, our
understanding of how genomes function is still far from the point where we can
change genes and be certain we aren't creating bigger unintended consequences.

Just about everyone agrees that regulation is urgently needed, but no one has
much of an idea what it should look like. A National Academies of Sciences,
Engineering and Medicine report on the nonhuman impact of gene drive is expected
next spring. In the meantime, two actions could vastly improve prospects for
successful and balanced regulation.

First, we need to clarify who has jurisdiction over gene-editing projects. Our
current system is inadequate and confusing. A transgenic mosquito release in
Florida by the company Oxitec is being evaluated by the Food and Drug
Administration; a similar proposal for a moth release in New York is being
overseen by the Department of Agriculture. Agencies vary widely in their review
processes, and the current uncertainty about who's in charge means that some
ventures can fall through the cracks. The White House needs to issue clear
guidelines.

Second, we need to pay for studies that explore the potential impacts of these
technologies on the environment. Right now, there's little incentive to explore
the risks. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine and
other groups evaluating those risks have virtually no data to work with. A
recent report by the Wilson Center notes that from 2008 to 14, less than 1
percent of synthetic biology funding went toward risk research in the United
States, lower than in other emerging technologies. Foundations that are
investing mightily in gene-editing technologies should commit to footing some of
the bill for research on the environmental risks.

And finally, we need to encourage a public conversation about these
technologies. At the end of the day, the escape of a few Harvard mosquitoes will
not be the most pressing problem our ecosystems will face. But to confront the
big challenges, we'll need an informed and educated public, sophisticated
oversight and a broad conversation about what kinds of advances and risks we
want to embrace. We need protections that are stronger than multiple doors.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/opinion/the-risks-of-assisting-evolution.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); GENETIC
ENGINEERING (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS
(90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%);
SCIENCE NEWS (89%); ANIMALS (89%); MALARIA (89%); DNA (89%); SCIENCE &
TECHNOLOGY (89%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); BIOETHICS
(78%); WILDLIFE (78%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%);
SCIENCE POLICY (73%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%)

STATE: EARTH (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Alabama Officers Are Suspended Over Use of Force to Halt a Party

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 311 words


TUSCALOOSA, Ala. --  Three police officers were suspended with pay Monday after
videos posted online showed officers using a stun gun and a baton to break up a
party and arrest three young people near the University of Alabama.

Chief Steve Anderson of the Tuscaloosa Police Department said he was ''deeply
disturbed'' by what he had seen in the videos and disappointed in the actions of
the officers.

The officers were responding to a noise complaint about 3:20 a.m. Sunday at an
apartment building about a block from Bryant-Denny Stadium, where Alabama had
defeated Louisiana State University in a football game hours earlier. The videos
show a Tuscaloosa officer at the apartment's door, arguing with occupants who
refuse to exit.

''Please let go of him,'' one of the young men says while the officer tries to
lead another person out. ''You are illegally entering.''

The person gets away from the officer and goes back inside, and the officer
follows him in.

After nearly two minutes of discussion and arguing, officers drag out two young
men and a screaming woman. An officer uses a stun gun on at least one of the
men; another officer hits him repeatedly with what appears to be a baton.

Three students will be charged with offenses including resisting arrest,
harassment and obstruction, Chief Anderson said. Their names and the names of
the officers were not released.

Discarded beer cans, bottles and a pair of underwear still littered the
building's walkways Monday afternoon.

''We were downstairs when the first officer rolled up, and then they cut the
music and everyone's like, 'Oh, looks like they're about to tell us to shut it
down,' '' Devin McDade, 22, said.

The university said three of its officers had responded after a Tuscaloosa
officer requested emergency assistance. The school said it was reviewing whether
its officers had acted properly.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/us/3-alabama-officers-suspended-over-use-of-fo
rce-in-ending-party.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE MISCONDUCT (91%); ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE
FORCES (78%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); STADIUMS &
ARENAS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (58%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

CITY: TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (95%)

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Afghan Fighters Loyal to Islamic State Beheaded 7 Hostages, Officials Say

BYLINE: By MUJIB MASHAL and TAIMOOR SHAH; Mujib Mashal reported from Kabul, and
Taimoor Shah from Kandahar, Afghanistan.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1049 words


KABUL, Afghanistan --  Afghan militants claiming loyalty to the Islamic State
were found to have beheaded seven ethnic Hazara civilians who had been abducted
in the southern Afghan province of Zabul, officials said on Monday, as
infighting among Taliban splinter factions intensified.

The Taliban had sent hundreds of extra fighters to the area to battle the
Islamic State breakaways and another splinter group there, according to local
and security officials. They said the bodies of the Hazaras were found on
Saturday after the Taliban had pushed back the Islamic State militants and a
group of allied former Taliban dissidents.

Although the Islamic State factions operating in Afghanistan have appeared to
have few, if any, operational links with the main jihadist organization in Syria
and Iraq, the groups' increasing numbers and violence have further confused the
country's insurgent situation. Security officials say that a leadership crisis
within the main Afghan Taliban group over the past year added momentum and
manpower to the Islamic State breakaways and gave birth to other splinter
insurgent groups.

Rather than illustrating any major weakening of the Taliban, however, security
officials say the splinter groups' expansion has mostly raised the danger for
Afghan civilians and pointed out the increased weakness of the Afghan government
and its security forces. Even as the insurgent infighting has intensified, the
main Taliban group has seized new territory from the government, particularly in
the country's north and south.

The beheaded Hazara hostages belonged to one of several groups of travelers
captured by Islamic State militants more than a month ago and were being held in
the Arghandab district in Zabul Province. After their bodies were discovered by
the Taliban, local elders helped mediate their transfer to a hospital in
government territory on Sunday, the officials said.

Two children were among the seven beheaded hostages, local officials said.

''Their throats had been cut with metal wire,'' said Hajji Atta Jan, the head of
the Zabul provincial council.

Afghanistan's Hazara minority has long faced persecution, especially by the
Taliban, and there has been an upswing in abductions and violence against them
this year. At least 19 more Hazaras are thought to still be held by militants in
Zabul, said Abdul Qayoum Sajjadi, a lawmaker who recently traveled to the
province to try to broker the Hazaras' release.

President Ashraf Ghani, describing the beheadings as ''heartless killing of
innocent individuals,'' ordered his security officials to pursue the attackers.
But it was clear that the order meant little on the ground; Afghan forces were
nowhere in the vicinity of the district where the beheadings happened, officials
said.

Family members of the victims, who were all from neighboring Ghazni Province and
were abducted while they were traveling, said they planned to bring the bodies
to Kabul to protest what they saw as the government's lack of response to a
problem that was becoming chronic.

Officials in Zabul Province said the local cell of the Islamic State, also known
as ISIS or ISIL, had recently allied with another breakaway Taliban faction that
is challenging the Taliban's new supreme leader, Mullah Akhtar Muhammad Mansour.

Just last week, the breakaway Taliban faction formally announced in a gathering
in Farah Province that it did not accept Mullah Mansour as the successor to
Mullah Muhammad Omar, whose death two years ago was revealed in July.

The group said it was rallying around a new leader, Mullah Muhammad Rasool, a
former member of the Taliban movement's ruling council. His deputy, Mullah
Mansour Dadullah, has been operating out of the Khak-e-Afghan district in Zabul.

''The reason we split from Mansour's self-proclaimed kingdom was that he is the
real murderer of Mullah Omar and some high-ranking Taliban during the 14 years
of struggle,'' Mullah Rasool said in a phone interview. His faction believes
that Mullah Omar did not die a natural death, as the group announced, but was
killed by Mullah Mansour. ''We will bring Mansour before justice soon.''

In response, Mullah Mansour sent as many as 450 fighters to crush the dissident
Mullah Dadullah as well as the Islamic State elements in Zabul, according to
Afghan security officials and local officials.

''Fighting between Mullah Mansour and Mullah Dadullah is ongoing in three
districts of Zabul,'' said Hajji Momand Nasratyar, the district governor of
Arghandab. ''Mansour is beating Dadullah and I.S. very hard -- around 86 of I.S.
and Dadullah's men have been killed, and 26 of Mansour's.''

The Taliban were also reported to have killed several of the Islamic State
militants said to be responsible for the beheadings, according to a local
official, though that account could not be confirmed more broadly.

Hajji Atta Jan, the Zabul provincial council chief, said the offensive by Mullah
Mansour's fighters was so intense that by late Monday at least three Islamic
State commanders, all of them ethnic Uzbeks, had surrendered and were asking
their fighters to do the same. The condition the Uzbek commanders had agreed on
with Mullah Mansour, according to Mr. Jan, was that they would not be handed
over to Pakistan, where they had been based before Pakistani military operations
pushed them into Afghan territory.

Despite Mullah Mansour's swift action against dissent, the announcement of the
breakaway faction seems to have rekindled doubts over his leadership that most
thought had been quelled by his delivering the Taliban their biggest victory in
14 years, the capture of the northern city of Kunduz in September.

Still, the dissent has not deterred Taliban fighters from making deep inroads
against the government in the south as well, where intense fighting has
continued in Helmand Province. The Taliban have made gains in the districts of
Nad Ali and Greshk, according to Muhammad Karim Attal, the head of the Helmand
provincial council.

The Taliban have also overrun police and army bases in the Marja district, one
of the centers of President Obama's 2010 troop surge, and were closing in on the
district governor's compound. Airstrikes had to be called in on Saturday to
break the siege of security forces there, officials said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/world/asia/afghan-fighters-loyal-to-isis-behea
ded-7-hostages-officials-say.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); TALIBAN (93%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT
(92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING
(90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); MINORITY GROUPS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CHILDREN (67%)

PERSON: ASHRAF GHANI AHMADZAI (59%)

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%)

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (97%); SYRIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A.D.H.D. Rises, but Support Lags

BYLINE: By KATHERINE ELLISON.

Katherine Ellison is the co-author of ''ADHD: What Everyone Needs to Know.''
Joseph Epstein contributed reporting from Tbilisi, Georgia.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1207 words


Last year, Sinan Sonmezler of Istanbul refused to keep going to school. His
eighth-grade classmates called him ''weird'' and ''stupid,'' and his teachers
rebuked him for his tendency to stare out the window during class. The school
director told his parents he was ''lazy.''

Sinan has attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, a condition still little
understood in many parts of the world.

''He no longer believes he can achieve anything, and has quit trying,'' said
Sinan's father, Umit Sonmezler, a mechanical engineer.

While global diagnoses of A.D.H.D. are on the rise, public understanding of the
disorder has not kept pace. Debates about the validity of the diagnosis and the
drugs used to treat it -- the same that have long polarized Americans -- are now
playing out from Northern and Eastern Europe to the Middle East and South
America.

Data from various nations tell a story of rapid change. In Germany, A.D.H.D.
diagnosis rates rose 381 percent from 1989 to 2001. In the United Kingdom,
prescriptions for A.D.H.D. medications rose by more than 50 percent in five
years to 657,000 in 2012, up from 420,000 in 2007. Consumption of A.D.H.D.
medications doubled in Israel from 2005 to 2012.

The surge in use of the medications has prompted skepticism that pharmaceutical
firms, chasing profits in an $11 billion international market for A.D.H.D.
drugs, are driving the global increase in diagnoses. In 2007, countries outside
the United States accounted for only 17 percent of the world's use of Ritalin.
By 2012, that number had grown to 34 percent.

''We need to be worried about the industry pressures, and we need to be worried
about overdiagnosis, for sure,'' said Luis Rohde, a professor of child
psychiatry at Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul in Brazil, and president
of the World Federation of A.D.H.D.

''But we also need to see the suffering of these families, and of children who
are not being able to grow up healthy without the diagnosis.''

For parents of children struggling with attention problems, the most urgent
issue is that their children aren't getting the medical, social or educational
support that they need.

''How can they be so cruel?'' asked Olga Elizabet Abregu on the Facebook page of
TDAH Argentina, an A.D.H.D. support group. Ms. Abregu is a mother in San Miguel
de Tucumán, Argentina, and she was lamenting the fact that none of her son
Santino's friends had shown up for his birthday party.

Santino, 8, has been given a diagnosis of A.D.H.D. His mother said one of his
teachers later told her that other parents had forbidden their children to play
with him.

Ms. Abregu moved her son out of his overcrowded public school to an expensive
private school -- a financial sacrifice compounded by the fact that she also
quit her job as a state-paid janitor because advocating for Santino with his
teachers and helping him with homework and social challenges was taking so much
time.

''Here where we live no one knows about A.D.H.D.,'' she wrote in an email, ''and
the few people who've heard of it say they don't believe in it, that it's only
rude kids without limits.''

Ms. Abregu began taking her son to psychologists at age 4 because of his unruly
behavior, which at the time included hitting other children and not being able
to share. Last April, Santiano was given his diagnosis by a neurologist who
prescribed stimulant medication.

Ms. Abregu and her husband have so far hesitated to fill that prescription,
because of worries about side effects. Yet they also worry about the
consequences of not following the doctor's suggestion. ''We're not sure if it's
right or not to deny him the medication,'' she said.

In Tbilisi, Georgia, Nino Jakhua sought advice about medication for her
6-year-old son, Nikoloz, who had recently been given a diagnosis of A.D.H.D. But
Georgia bans the stimulants that are the front-line medications used to treat
the disorder elsewhere in the world.

So instead, a neuropathologist in Tbilisi prescribed therapy and supplements,
including butyric acid, glycine, glutamine, magnesium, vitamin B6 drops and
omega-3 capsules, none of which are conventional treatments for the disorder.

The therapy seems to have helped, his mother said, yet she wonders if medication
might help him more. ''He moves a lot, runs back and forth and hugs people
roughly with the request to play with him,'' she said. ''He has a trouble
sitting for more than 10 minutes for drawing.''

Nino Margvelashvili, a neuropsychologist at the Institute of Neurology and
Neuropsychology in Tbilisi, who also works as a counselor in a private school,
said some parents simply smuggle in medication, most often with help from
friends or relatives in Ukraine.

In many other cases, neurologists prescribe other drugs, including sedatives and
medications normally used for dementia or psychosis. ''They make the children
dumb -- I really feel sorry for them,'' she said.

In many parts of the world, parents of children with A.D.H.D. say they feel
stigmatized, no matter how they try to cope with the disorder.

''If you medicate, you are a bad mom,'' said Patricia Oedell, who lives in a
village outside Villingen-Schwenningen, Germany, and has three children with
A.D.H.D. diagnoses. ''And if you don't, you are also a bad mom.''

For Ms. Oedell, the start of school this year revived painful memories of having
to coax her ostracized teenage daughter to keep going to class.

Her 12-year-old son, who also has been diagnosed with A.D.H.D., has meanwhile
careened from crisis to crisis, such as the time he drove a nail through his
finger, and the time he suffered burn injuries after carrying a lighted
firecracker under his jacket.

Such problems may be familiar to American parents who have coped with the
disorder, but in places like Villingen-Schwenningen, an A.D.H.D diagnosis can
make parents feel like pariahs, Ms. Oedell said.

''In Germany, it's really not accepted to be different,'' Ms. Oedell said.
''Either people say A.D.H.D. doesn't exist, or they make it seem like some
terrible moral problem.''

For the parents of Sinan, the Turkish eighth grader, the challenges of coping
with A.D.H.D. in Istanbul were ultimately too great. They began to search for a
school outside their home country to which to send him, and chose a program in
Utah that offers support for students with A.D.H.D.

The school will cost the family $10,000 a month, forcing them to drain their
savings and seek help from relatives, but they don't see an alternative.

''We are so sorry that we will not see and live with him while he grows into
adulthood, and to have him so far away,'' his father, Umit, wrote in an email.
''We then remind ourselves that this can be a lifesaving step for him and try to
calm ourselves. It is hard.''

Katherine Ellison is the co-author of ''ADHD: What Everyone Needs to Know.''
Joseph Epstein contributed reporting from Tbilisi, Georgia.

Related:

Exercising the Mind to Treat Attention Deficits

To Help a Shy Child, Listen

Attention Problems May Be Sleep-Related

For more fitness, food and wellness news, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or
sign up for our newsletter.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/11/09/a-d-h-d-rates-rise-around-globe-but-sym
pathy-often-lags/

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPHER SILAS NEAL)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
PROFESSORS (77%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY
(74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL
PREPARATION MFG (66%); PSYCHIATRY (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST
(79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (76%); NORTHERN EUROPE (76%); UNITED
KINGDOM (75%); ISRAEL (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rebuild at Home

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 55 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Human Cost Rises as Infrastructure Withers'' (news article, Nov. 6):

If the money we've poured into our fruitless efforts to act as ''peacekeeper''
and general security guard to the entire world were used instead to repair and
rebuild our infrastructure, we would be far, far better off.

SANDRA SIZER

Boston




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/opinion/crumbling-infrastructure-rebuild-at-ho
me.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (86%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Disabled Job Seekers

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 189 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Study Using Fake Job Letters Exposes Bias Against Disabled'' (The Upshot,
Nov. 2):

This study's findings are consistent with available information on employer
attitudes and job seekers with disabilities.

The extensive employer study conducted by the Office of Disability Employment
Policy showed that large companies tend to be more proactive than small and
medium-size companies. Specifically, large companies were more likely to employ,
hire and actively recruit people with disabilities.

In a recent national survey of disability and employment, more than 3,000 people
with disabilities responded to questions about barriers they encounter in job
searches and how successfully they overcome those barriers.

Thirty-six percent cited employers' assumptions that they were unable to do the
job as a barrier. Only a third successfully overcame this barrier.

Improving the employment outlook hinges on strategies that change employer
attitudes, with an emphasis on hiring practices at midsize and small companies.

JOHN O'NEILL

Director, Employment

and Disability Research

Kessler Foundation

West Orange, N.J.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/10/opinion/disabled-job-seekers.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (97%); DISABLED WORKERS (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%);
RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%);
SMALL BUSINESS (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); RESEARCH REPORTS (88%); EDITORIALS
& OPINIONS (59%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials STEINBERG, HAROLD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 17 words


STEINBERG--Harold. November 10, 2011. My beloved husband. Always in my heart.
Eternal Love, Monette 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Memorials SKARIMBAS, ELIAS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 24 words


SKARIMBAS--Elias. You and I made memories that light the sky, that only time can
make, that only love can make, you and I. Unavoidably Yours 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths WOLNER, RENA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 28 words


WOLNER--Rena, on November 7, 2015. Devoted sister, beloved friend, brilliant
publisher. You will be missed. Jane Dystel, Jessica Toonkel, Steven and Zachary
Schwinder 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SHERMAN, NORTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 178 words


SHERMAN--Norton. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society
(ATS) mourn the loss of Norton Sherman of Newton, MA. Together with his beloved
wife, Claire, he was a Technion Guardian, a designation reserved for those who
have reached the highest level of commitment. Among their many gifts to the
Technion is the George and Beatrice Sherman Center for Education in Technology
and Science. Mr. Sherman was a Life Trustee of the ATS National Board of
Regents, formerly served on the organization's National Board of Directors, and
for many years was a leader of the ATS New England Region. He was an Honorary
Life Member of the Technion Board of Governors, and was awarded a Technion
Honorary Fellowship in 1996. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife,
Claire, children Amy, Steven and Brian, and to the entire Sherman family.
American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Zahava Bar-Nir,
President Scott Leemaster, Chairman of the Board Jeff Richard, Executive Vice
President Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President Emeritus 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR TECHNION-ISRAEL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ROTHOLZ, WILLIAM (VEVY)

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 81 words


ROTHOLZ--William (Vevy), August 16, 1923 - November 7, 2015. Beloved husband of
Rina nee Chelouche, loving father of David Rotholz (Kathy Paddor-Rotholz), Ruth
van Eck-Rotholz (the late Torild van Eck), and Susan Rotholz (Eliot Bailen),
cherished grandfather of Zachary Paddor-Rotholz, Miriam and Rachel van Eck,
Daniel, David Eli and Julia Bailen. Services will be held at Riverside-Nassau
North Chapels at 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, New York on Tuesday,
November 10 at 1:45pm. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MARUFFI, DR. BRIAN L.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 48 words


MARUFFI--Dr. Brian L.,on November 5, 2015. Beloved husband of Lorraine, loving
father of Trevor, beloved brother of Karen Power, revered teacher and mentor to
his students. Reposing at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel in New York City.
Funeral Mass, Thursday, 10:00am, St. Ignatius Loyola. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (67%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LEWIS, STEPHEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 65 words


LEWIS--Stephen, 67, of East Hampton, NY on November 8, 2015. Son of the late Dr.
Sydney and Beatrice Lewis, husband of the late Elizabeth; he is survived by a
sister and brother-in-law, Joan Lewis and Howard Jaeckel, and two nieces,
Shoshana and Franny Goldberg. Private funeral services and burial will be held
in Ewing, NJ. For information: Orland's Ewing Memorial Chapel, 609-883-1400. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%)

COMPANY: LEWIS & HOWARD (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (66%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LAMPERT, STANLEY

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 185 words


LAMPERT--Stanley, at age 86, on November 8. Much loved husband of Roslyn, father
of Charles (Robin), Shari, Michael (Nancy), Jonathan (Debbie), and grandfather
to Jamie, Randy, Iain, Rachel and Jenna. Born in Brooklyn, NY, he attended
Lincoln High School, where he was an all-city basketball player. He then
attended NYU where he played basketball, threw the discus and was an
all-American in the shot put. He competed for the United States in the Maccabiah
games, where he was a double gold medal winner in the shot put and the discus
and, in 1954, went on to set a world record in the shot put. After his athletic
career, he went on to equal success in the business world, becoming one of the
leading life insurance and financial planning practitioners in the industry. He
was a successful businessman, lover of opera and the arts, an avid golfer and
gardener. The family will be sitting Shiva on Wednesday, November 11, and
Thursday November 12 from 2-4pm and 7-9pm at home. Gifts in his memory may be
made to The Association for the Visually Impaired in Spring Valley, NY or The
Metropolitan Opera Guild. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRACK & FIELD (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); ATHLETES (76%);
BASKETBALL (76%); LIFE INSURANCE (67%); OPERA (67%); THEATER COMPANIES (67%);
VISION IMPAIRMENTS (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN OPERA GUILD (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KLEIN, MARILYN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 80 words


KLEIN--Marilyn. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of the Hebrew Home
at Riverdale by RiverSpringHealth mourn the passing of Marilyn Klein. Marilyn's
resounding voice in the community and deep devotion to her family were an
inspiration to all who knew her. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the
entire Klein family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Jeffrey
Maurer, Chairman, Board of Trustees Daniel Reingold, President and CEO
RiverSpring Health 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); EXECUTIVES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HOROWITZ, RICHARD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 98 words


HOROWITZ--Richard. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of former principal
timpanist Richard "Dick" Horowitz, the longest-serving orchestra member in the
company's history. Horowitz joined the orchestra at the beginning of the Met's
1946-47 season, and served continuously until his retirement in 2012 at the age
of 88--a total of 66 years at the Met. We extend our condolences to his family
and friends, and to the thousands of artists, musicians, and backstage personnel
who he worked with during his unprecedented Met career. Peter Gelb, General
Manager James Levine, Music Director 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MUSIC (88%);
MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (86%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (86%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(85%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HEYMAN, ANNETTE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 89 words


HEYMAN--Annette. Yeshiva University and its Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law
mourn the passing of Annette Heyman, mother-in-law of Ronnie Heyman, who served
with distinction as a trustee of Yeshiva University and a director of Cardozo,
and continues as an honorary member of Cardozo's Board of Overseers. We extend
our heartfelt condolences to Ronnie; her grandchildren, Lazarus (Kim), Eleanor,
Jennifer (David), Elizabeth and Lazar; and the entire family. Yeshiva University
Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, President Emeritus 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION
(88%); GRANDCHILDREN (85%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HERTER, FREDERIC PRATT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 400 words


HERTER--Frederic Pratt, passed away peacefully at his home in New York City on
November 7 at the age of 94. Herter joined the American University of Beirut as
a trustee in 1977. He served as Chairman of the Board of trustees from 1985 to
1987, and President of the University from 1987 to 1993. Through the challenging
times of the civil war, he fought to keep the University's doors open and its
students safe, even while Americans were barred from travelling to Lebanon. From
the President's office in New York City, he fostered a vision of AUB as a world
class university and medical center, and a beacon of moderation and
understanding in the Middle East. A highly respected surgeon and teacher, Herter
received his undergraduate degree from Harvard College, his M.D. from Harvard
Medical School, and did post-graduate training in surgery at the Presbyterian
Hospital, where he faithfully spent his medical career for nearly half a
century.

He was a pioneering surgeon and role model to generations of medical students,
residents and faculty members while serving as the Auchincloss Professor of
Surgery at Columbia University; Acting Chairman of Department of Surgery at the
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, Acting Director of
Surgery at Presbyterian Hospital, Director of Surgery at Francis Delafield
Hospital; a trustee of Mary Imogene Bassett Hospital, Jackson Laboratories, and
American Near East Refugee Aid; a regent of Cathedral of St. John the Divine,
New York; a member of the board of governors of the Middle East Institute,
Washington; a member of the board of advisers of the Hariri Foundation USA; and
a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. The scion of a distinguished New
York family, Herter embodied the best qualities of leadership: inquisitiveness,
determination, sensitivity, sense of purpose, and compassion. His legacy is a
resolute belief in the ability of individuals and societies to work together for
the benefit of humankind, which elevated everyone in his presence, and left the
world a better place. He is survived by his beloved wife, Solange; sister, Adele
Seronde; son, Eric; daughters, Caroline and Brooke; stepson, Marc;
stepdaughters, Mary, Veronique and Jacqueline; and many grandchildren. Philip S.
Khoury, PhD, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Fadlo R. Khuri, M.D., President,
American University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADUATE &
PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CHILDREN
(78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); TEACHING
& TEACHERS (76%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (75%); HOSPITALS (74%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL
CENTERS (74%); REFUGEES (71%); PHYSICIAN FELLOWSHIPS & RESIDENCIES (69%);
GRANDCHILDREN (68%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (82%); AMERICAN NEAR EAST REFUGEE AID (54%)

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); LEBANON (94%); MIDDLE EAST (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HERTER, FREDERIC PRATT

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 364 words


HERTER--Frederic Pratt, died peacefully at home in New York City, surrounded by
family, on November 7. He was the son of Mary Caroline Pratt Herter and
Christian A. Herter, Governor of Massachusetts, and subsequently, Secretary of
State under President Dwight D. Eisenhower. He is survived by his wife of forty
years, Solange Batsell Herter; his sister, Adele Seronde; his son, Eric Herter;
his daughters, Caroline Herter and Brooke James; his son-in-law; David James;
four stepchildren, four grandchildren and eleven step-grandchildren. He attended
St.

Paul's School in Concord, New Hampshire, Harvard University and Harvard Medical
School. He went to Japan with the Occupation Forces as First Lieutenant in the
Army Medical Corps. He was the Auchincloss Professor of Surgery, the Acting
Chairman of the Department of Surgery, and later Professor Emeritus at Columbia
Presbyterian Hospital, where he served for forty years. He was a member of the
John Jones Surgical Society. He served as director of surgery at the Francis
Delafield Hospital in New York, consultant at the Harlem and Goldwater Memorial
Hospitals, and consultant at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. After his
tenure at Columbia, he was appointed President of the American University of
Beirut, where he served for eight years, during the troubled times of the Syrian
Civil War. He continued his dedicated involvement as trustee Emeritus in later
years. He shared a trusteeship with his wife, Solange, at the Cathedral of St.
John The Divine in New York City, was trustee of the Mary Imogene Bassett
Hospital in Cooperstown, NY, and a trustee of the Jackson Laboratories in Maine.
Doctor Herter was the author of an autobiography "May I Cut In" and co-author
with his colleague and friend, Doctor Alfred Jaretzki, of "A Proud Heritage, An
Informal History of Surgery at Columbia." A giant in so many ways, he was the
warmest, kindest, most thoughtful person. With never a nasty word for anybody,
his honorability was always at the core of everything. May his beautiful soul
rest in peace. Services will be held on Friday, November 13th at 11am at St.
James Episcopal Church, 865 Madison Avenue, New York City. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CHILDREN (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%);
CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%);
UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); HOSPITALS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ACADEMIC
MEDICAL CENTERS (75%); CIVIL WAR (74%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION
(71%); ARMIES (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL
LITERATURE (63%); SYRIAN CRISIS (51%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: JOHN P JONES III (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HASSON, DR

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 56 words


HASSON--Dr. Robert, passed away on October 13 2015 in Laguna Niguel, CA. He is
survived by his wife, Rachel Hasson, four children, three grandchildren and two
great-grandchildren. A memorial for the family will take place in South
Carolina. A later memorial and burial at sea will take place in California. Date
and details will follow. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%)

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (67%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HALEVY, UZI

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 169 words


HALEVY--Uzi. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society
(ATS) express profound sorrow at the loss of Uzi Halevy of Houston. The Technion
alumnus was a member of the ATS National Board of Directors, and the Technion
Board of Governors. He was also a devoted and active leader of the ATS Houston
Chapter, and was honored with a Technion Honorary Fellowship in 2014. Together
with his beloved wife Micki, Mr. Halevy was a Technion Guardian, a distinction
reserved for those who have reached the highest level of support. Among the
projects they supported were the Uzi & Michal Halevy Fund for Innovative Applied
Engineering Research and vital student support including scholarships,
fellowships and dormitories. We extend our deepest condolences to Micki, and the
entire family. American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology
Zahava Bar-Nir, President Scott Leemaster, Chairman of the Board Jeff Richard,
Executive Vice President Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President Emeritus 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS
(86%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); ENGINEERING (67%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH
(53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR TECHNION-ISRAEL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths FALES, HALIBURTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 48 words


FALES--Haliburton, 2nd New York University Libraries mourns the death of
Haliburton Fales, 2nd, supporter of the Fales Library, founded by his father at
NYU in 1957. Hal's stewardship, wise counsel, and immensely gracious presence
will be sorely missed. Our thoughts are with his family. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (88%); LIBRARIES (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths COONEY, JOHN P.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 70 words


COONEY--John P.,Jr. The Shakespeare Society mourns the loss of Jack Cooney,
distinguished attorney, valued friend, and beloved husband of our Board Member
Jane Cooney. Our thoughts and prayers are with Jane and their three beautiful
children, Luke, Nathaniel, and Emma. "His life was gentle, and the elements/ So
mixed in him that Nature might stand up/ And say to all the world, "This was a
man." "Julius Caesar" V, v 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 225 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2015 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths COHEN, LEWIS D.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 199 words


COHEN--Lewis D.,a noted and highly respected attorney, has died at the age of 88
at his home in Kings Point, New York. Born in Brooklyn, New York, Mr. Cohen was
a celebrated criminal defense attorney for over 40 years, having tried an
estimated 200 cases to verdict. Mr. Cohen volunteered to join the Navy during
WWII, and graduated from Syracuse University in 1949 with an A.B degree. He
earned his law degree from Fordham Law School in 1952. Mr. Cohen was an
Assistant District Attorney in the Grand Jury and Homicide Bureaus. After
leaving the D.A.'s Office, Mr. Cohen began a private law practice, and was
recognized as one of the finest defense attorneys in New York State. He was
awarded the Kings County Criminal Bar Association's Lifetime Achievement Award
in 2001. He was an avid fan of Syracuse University and the University of
Virginia sports. Mr. Cohen leaves behind his beloved wife of 49 years, Maralin
Cohen; his children, Douglas and Carin, daughter-in-law, Melissa, son-in-law,
Terry; and his dear grandchildren, Chloe, Carly, Alexis, and Alana. Services and
burial will be on Thursday, November 12th at 11:00am at Riverside-Nassau North
Chapel in Great Neck: 516-487-9600. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LAWYERS (92%); CHILDREN (90%); LAW SCHOOLS
(90%); DEATHS (90%); HOMICIDE (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%); WORLD WAR II (71%);
GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (71%); GRAND
JURY (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%)

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (83%); US NAVY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA
(56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
