
                               1 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Murphy's Dash, a Frustrating Season Slips Past the Dodgers, Too

BYLINE: By BILLY WITZ

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1019 words


LOS ANGELES -- As Daniel Murphy casually trotted toward second base after a walk
to Lucas Duda, it was the innocent beginning of a play that will be remembered
as an epitaph for the Los Angeles Dodgers' season.

Shortstop Corey Seager and second baseman Howie Kendrick, hovering around the
bag, talked about where they would be stationed next. Third baseman Justin
Turner walked from shallow right field, where he had been marooned on a shift,
back to his position. Zack Greinke stood on the mound, the ball in his hand and
his head down, deep in thought. Catcher Yasmani Grandal was standing at home
plate watching it all unfold -- screaming but powerless to move.

Five Dodgers were in a position to cover third base. Nobody did.

So Murphy, sensing an opportunity, seized it. As he neared second base, his jog
became an all-out sprint and he slid into third base without a play. Moments
later, he came home on Travis d'Arnaud's sacrifice fly.

The sequence drew the Mets even, and although Murphy's home run off Greinke two
innings later, in the sixth, delivered a 3-2 victory Thursday and a berth in the
National League Championship Series, his dash was the more telling play.

''That's just one of those plays where you should know better -- you should be
on top of it,'' said Dodgers right fielder Andre Ethier, who admitted to also
having been asleep on the play, awakened only by the anguish of the crowd. ''We
let that play slip.''

They let more than that slip.

In the three full seasons since Guggenheim Baseball Management purchased the
Dodgers for a record $2 billion, the team has failed to reach the World Series.
This was the second consecutive year that the Dodgers have gone out in the first
round with home-field advantage and the best 1-2 pitching tandem in baseball:
Clayton Kershaw and Greinke.

After last year's loss to St. Louis, the Dodgers hired Andrew Friedman from
Tampa Bay, where he had done wonders with one of baseball's lowest payrolls, and
handed him by far the largest, now near $300 million. He set about overhauling
the roster. A franchise record 55 players played for the Dodgers this season.

''For them, the off-season starts now,'' reliever J. P. Howell said of Friedman,
the team president of baseball operations, and General Manager Farhan Zaidi.
''They're going to be doing their homework. Guys wonder about that -- what's
going to be the turnover. It's a long winter. A lot can happen.''

Much of the focus will be on Dodgers Manager Don Mattingly, who replaced Joe
Torre after the 2010 season. He has one more year left on his contract, but the
Dodgers have already spent more than $85 million this year on players they have
jettisoned.

Asked afterward whether the loss could lead to his departure, the usually placid
Mattingly shot back: ''Seriously? You're asking me that now?''

He then instructed the moderator to take another question.

But Mattingly did not duck expressing his disappointment.

''There are really no words to describe how you feel right now,'' he said. ''You
come to spring training, you work all winter, you scratch, you fight all year
long to get into this situation, and you have a chance. It comes to a crash. I
don't think there is any way to soften that blow.''

The Dodgers' other big decision involves Greinke, who, on the heels of his best
season, 19-3 with a 1.66 E.R.A., can opt out of the remaining three years and
$71 million on his contract.

Asked if he hoped to be back next season, Greinke said: ''That would be nice. I
guess that is my whole response.''

When he was reminded that he had control over the situation, Greinke said, ''See
you guys,'' and made his way out of the clubhouse.

It might have been a parting shot. The Dodgers, despite their willingness to
spend, want to do so in a more prudent manner, and there is little historical
evidence that bestowing a lengthy, big-money contract on a pitcher who will turn
32 next week is a smart investment.

The Dodgers, who started three players 24 or younger (Joc Pederson, Kike
Hernandez and Seager), figure to continue to get younger.

While Mattingly embraced the analytics-driven philosophies of Friedman and
Zaidi, his strength in Los Angeles has been handling a room full of strong
personalities, something he was well equipped for from his days with the
Yankees.

Ethier's outburst in the dugout in the fourth inning, when he was seen yelling
at Mattingly, was explained by both as Ethier's being upset at the strike zone
of the home plate umpire, Gary Cederstrom. Mattingly was trying to calm him
down.

As the Dodgers trend younger, they may seek someone who is a more proficient
game manager, though there were no glaring second-guessers' delights in this
series, unlike the last two years. Mattingly lifted Adrian Gonzalez for a
pinch-runner too early in an extra-inning loss to St. Louis in 2013 and benched
Yasiel Puig in last year's series-clinching loss to the Cardinals.

As Hernandez noted, Mattingly could not help the Dodgers do better than 2 for 13
with runners in scoring position -- unless he grabbed a bat.

''We had every chance in the world to win this game and we didn't, so I don't
see how that's Donnie's fault,'' said Hernandez, who chided himself for
grounding into a double play that killed a rally in the third inning. ''If I
would have gotten a hit or a sac fly, we might still be playing, and nobody
would be talking about Donnie being on the hot seat.''

But something is clearly missing. Amid the frustration and disappointment of
another opportunity that slipped away, the Dodgers had trouble connecting the
dots of their playoff shortcomings.

''We're just missing whatever it takes to get over that edge,'' said Carl
Crawford, the veteran outfielder. ''We just seem to fall short every year, so I
don't really know. Everybody's playing hard. We just seem to fall short. We just
needed to catch a break, I think.''

Often enough, especially in the playoffs, those breaks are self-induced. The
teams that move on are typically not only those that hit, pitch and play defense
superbly but that make sure they have all the bases covered.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/baseball/los-angeles-dodgers-nlcs-new-y
ork-mets.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Manager Don Mattingly has a year left on his contract with the
Dodgers, though Thursday's season-ending loss to the Mets has raised questions
about his future. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAYNE-KAMIN ONCEA/USA TODAY SPORTS, VIA
REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION
EVENTS (87%); SPORTS BUSINESS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (94%); NEW YORK METS (82%)

PERSON: DANIEL J MURPHY (89%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (67%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA
(67%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (67%); MISSOURI, USA (67%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Head of the British Museum Follows a Childhood Fascination to Germany

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1407 words


LONDON -- Neil MacGregor, soft-spoken and private, finds Germany an endless
puzzle and a continuing fascination, a land whose language, art and history have
shaped Europe for centuries, and yet remains almost terra incognita for most
Britons.

At 69, Mr. MacGregor has long been cherished as one of Britain's most
accomplished cultural figures and has had a strong impact on at least two major
institutions. Now, he is leaving the British Museum, which he has transformed as
its director, and is decamping professionally to Germany. There, he will help to
shape one of that country's most audacious cultural projects, the Humboldt
Forum, intended to frame Germany's historical and artistic relationship with the
world.

He is already considered Britain's prime interlocutor with Germany. Last year,
he curated a popular exhibition, ''Germany: Memories of a Nation,'' intended to
help explain the Germans to the British, and perhaps also to themselves, on
themes built around objects and individuals -- Luther for language; Dürer for
art; the gate of Buchenwald for cultural and political sadism and brutality; the
sausage as a symbol of diversity.

The exhibition drew 114,000 people, including Chancellor Angela Merkel of
Germany, and an accompanying radio series he did for the BBC has been downloaded
five million times. An associated book, clearly written and lavishly
illustrated, has now been published in the United States.

Mr. MacGregor's fascination with Germany began as a child, born in 1946 in
Glasgow to Alexander and Anna, who were doctors and involved in the war -- his
father in the navy and his mother in Plymouth, during the severe German bombing
of that crucial port.

Yet his parents never lost their love for the Continent, for France and Germany,
''and for them the reconnection with the Continent was a very important thing,''
Mr. MacGregor said.

''They were very much of the generation committed to making a new kind of world,
and for them that meant a new kind of Europe,'' he said.

Reminiscing in his light-filled office at the British Museum, which he helped to
make Britain's most popular attraction, with 6.7 million visitors a year, he
said that ''we all grew up not so much in the shadow of the Second World War,
but in its presence.''

''Every grown-up talked about it, and from early childhood we lived with the
consequences,'' he said -- the rationing, the shortages, the hurt and maimed.

His parents ''were entirely British and entirely Scottish, and so had no
difficulties with several overlapping identities,'' he said, and Glasgow itself
had a lively population of German émigrés, many of them Jewish, who had fled the
Nazis and whose children were among his classmates. And he had a revered
language teacher from Central Europe who had them translating German into French
at the age of 13.

''He was fascinated by the idea that different languages are about different
engagements in the world, and that Europe was one linguistic space, with
differences but connections, and one cultural space,'' Mr. MacGregor said.

At 15, Mr. MacGregor was sent by his parents to school in Hamburg for three
months. ''I was terrifically conscious that this was a city the R.A.F. had
totally destroyed and the British had occupied,'' he said, referring to the
Royal Air Force. ''I was expecting silent hostility, but quite the reverse.''
There was admiration for the British and the decency of their occupation, he
said, ''and this was beginning of the puzzle of how the Germans live with their
history.''

He studied German at Oxford but did his academic work on France, on Diderot and
especially religious painting. Yet he became a lawyer and even practiced for a
few years, before deciding, at 27, to chuck it all and study art history. Wasn't
that daring? ''Well, I don't think it's brave at 27, if you have no commitments
or dependents, to do what you want,'' he said, laughing.

His mentor was Anthony Blunt, the great art historian identified only in 1979 as
a Soviet spy. But Mr. MacGregor called Mr. Blunt ''a great and generous teacher,
with that extraordinary gift of making you feel you were saying something new
and interesting,'' a gift Mr. MacGregor, too, has learned to offer.

In 1987, having edited The Burlington Magazine, an art journal, Mr. MacGregor
was appointed director of the National Gallery, and for 15 years learned how to
shape and manage a great British institution. It was there, with the paucity of
the German collection after 1870, he realized ''how distorted, because so
fragmentary, the understanding of Germany and German culture had become.''
German aggression had led to a cultural break, and a language and culture once
widespread in Britain -- the royal family are Germans, after all -- had been
mostly lost.

''It's the most asymmetrical relationship we have,'' Mr. MacGregor said, ''and
we as a country were seriously disadvantaged.'' Britain and France have many
wrong ideas about one another, he continued, ''but they have ideas, and an equal
amount of real information and myth, but with Germany there's this inordinate
imbalance, where they know a great deal about us and are interested in us and we
know very little other than the two wars, 1914-18 and 1933-45.''

The first piece the National Gallery bought after 1945, as an effort to
reconnect, was ''what they think is a Dürer,'' Mr. MacGregor said, laughing.
''But it turned out to be 'school of.' ''

In 2002, he was made director of the British Museum, then deeply in debt, with a
deficit of 5 million pounds, about $7,820,000 at the time. He has remade the
place and restored its finances, while making sometimes controversial cultural
openings to Iran, Russia and China, as well as to Germany, and defending the
retention of the Elgin marbles, the Parthenon sculptures long claimed by Greece
and by now a wearying theme.

Asked what still baffles him most about Germany, Mr. MacGregor said it was the
ability for a millennium ''to internalize the idea of a wide cultural space
without political frontiers,'' something foreign to the British or French.
''People find the common ground in the language, which was deliberately shaped
by Luther to speak to ordinary people across this huge area,'' rather like
Mandarin today.

He thought for a moment and said, ''I began in and with the language, and it
keeps going back to language.''

And, he said, then there is the unspeakable barbarism of the Nazis, ''the huge
question about evil on that scale, capturing a society.'' But beyond the nature
of evil, he said, ''almost the more puzzling question, and it really is a
universal one, is the terrifying fragility of civilization, all civilizations.''

He added, ''And that's why everybody keeps going back to the question of
Germany.''

Mr. MacGregor leaves the by year's end, and while his loss to Britain is greatly
mourned, again, he has chosen a wider view. He will be one of three people to
guide the new Humboldt Forum in Berlin, which will be centered in the newly
rebuilt Hohenzollern Stadtschloss that anchors Unter den Linden. Ripped down by
the Communists as a symbol of Prussian militarism, it was replaced by an ugly
Palace of the Republic. After reunification, the new Germany ripped down that
asbestos-filled building, choosing controversially to rebuild the schloss -- or
at least its facade.

Still, the forum, named for the two famous Humboldt brothers, the philosopher
linguist and the naturalist, will unify Germany's existing collections, gathered
not from imperial conquest, Mr. MacGregor said, but from ''a Germany of the
mind, that sees the world as connected and understandable through intellectual
endeavor -- the whole notion of weltgeschichte, of weltkultur,'' or world
history and world culture.

''It's an intellectual inheritance that was shattered by the Nazis, and the
reconstruction of that idea, that cultures are both particular and global,
contextual and connected, is an extraordinary thing to try to do,'' Mr.
MacGregor said.

It seems a fitting culmination of a career that has been founded on finding the
universal in the particular -- and trying to rebind the world through culture
and history. One of the questions he always tried to answer, he said, is, ''What
does the world look like if you're somebody else?''

Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: European Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/europe/british-museums-director-follows-
a-fascination-to-germany.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NEIL MacGREGOR (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); GERMAN CHANCELLORS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT
(70%); CHILDREN (69%); WORLD WAR II (69%); BOMBINGS (64%); EMIGRATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH MUSEUM (91%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (79%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (72%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (94%); SCOTLAND (79%);
FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Raising Taxes on the Wealthiest Would Pay for Bold Plans

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1643 words


When it comes to paying taxes, most Americans think the wealthy do not pay their
fair share.

There is a sharp divide, however, between Republicans and Democrats when it
comes to taxing the rich, who provide most of the cash for political campaigns.

All the Republican tax proposals, in fact, cut taxes for the wealthiest
Americans. Democrats, on the other hand, are prepared to raise taxes at the top,
though they have not been very specific about how they would do so.

''Right now, the wealthy pay too little,'' Hillary Rodham Clinton said at this
week's Democratic debate in Las Vegas, ''and the middle class pays too much.''

But what could a tax-the-rich plan actually achieve? As it turns out, quite a
lot, experts say. Given the gains that have flowed to those at the tip of the
income pyramid in recent decades, several economists have been making the case
that the government could raise large amounts of revenue exclusively from this
small group, while still allowing them to take home a majority of their income.

It is ''absurd'' to argue that most wealth at the top is already highly taxed or
that there isn't much more revenue to be had by raising taxes on the 1 percent,
says the economist Joseph E. Stiglitz, winner of the Nobel in economic science,
who has written extensively about inequality. ''The only upside of the
concentration of the wealth at the top is that they have more money to pay in
taxes,'' he said.

The top 1 percent on average already pay roughly a third of their incomes to the
federal government, according to a Treasury Department analysis that takes into
account the entire menu of taxes -- including income tax, payroll taxes that
fund Medicare and Social Security, estate and gift taxes, excise and custom
duties as well as investors' share of corporate taxes. The tax bite on the top
0.1 percent is a bit higher. Most of those taxpayers insist they are already
paying more than enough.

By comparison, the band of taxpayers right below them, in the 95th to 99th
percentile, pay on average about $1 out of every $4. Those in the bottom half
pay less than $1 out of every $10.

Sidestepping for the moment the messy question of just which taxes would be
increased, how much more revenue could be generated by asking the rich to pay a
larger share of their income in taxes?

To get the most accurate picture possible, throw in all the scraps of income,
from the most obvious (like wages, interest and dividends) to the least (like
employer contributions to health plans, overseas earnings and growth in
retirement accounts). According to that measure -- used by the Tax Policy
Center, a joint project of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution --
the top 1 percent includes about 1.13 million households earning an average
income of $2.1 million.

Raising their total tax burden to, say, 40 percent would generate about $157
billion in revenue the first year. Increasing it to 45 percent brings in a
whopping $276 billion. Even taking account of state and local taxes, the average
household in this group would still take home at least $1 million a year.

If the tax increase were limited to just the 115,000 households in the top 0.1
percent, with an average income of $9.4 million, a 40 percent tax rate would
produce $55 billion in extra revenue in its first year.

That would more than cover, for example, the estimated $47 billion cost of
eliminating undergraduate tuition at all the country's four-year public colleges
and universities, as Senator Bernie Sanders has proposed, or Mrs. Clinton's
cheaper plan for a debt-free college degree, with money left over to help fund
universal prekindergarten.

A tax rate of 45 percent on this select group raises $109 billion, more than
enough to pay for the first year of a new $2,500 child tax credit introduced by
Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida.

Move a rung down the ladder and expand the contribution of those in the 95th to
99th percentile -- who earn on average $405,000. Raising their total tax rate to
30 percent from a quarter of their total yearly income would generate an
additional $86 billion. That's enough to cover the cost over eight years of
repealing the so-called Cadillac Tax on high-cost health plans, which Senator
Sanders and Mrs. Clinton have endorsed.

A 35 percent share produces $176 billion -- roughly the amount that the Federal
Highway Administration has estimated is needed each year to improve conditions
significantly on major urban highways.

Alternatively, those tax increases could be used to help reduce government
borrowing: Some combination of those raises could go a long way toward wiping
out this year's estimated federal deficit of $426 billion.

''Most economists today would agree that raising taxes modestly would bring in
more revenue'' without doing any serious damage to the economy, said Roberton
Williams, a fellow at the Tax Policy Center. The big question is how much is too
much, because at some point, higher tax rates would discourage extra investment
and work.

All the Republican candidates share the party's traditional opposition to
raising taxes on the wealthy, arguing that it would ruin the economy by sopping
up money that would otherwise be used to create jobs. Lowering taxes, they say,
will unleash a torrent of economic activity that will in the long run spur
growth and revenue.

But most mainstream economists, including some on the conservative side of the
divide, concede that even with optimistic projections about growth and spending
cuts, the Republican plans would leave a whopping budget gap, requiring more
borrowing, not less. Revamping the tax code along these lines would also
decrease the share paid by those at the top.

The argument for raising tax rates on the rich tends to focus on the vast  gains
that this group has enjoyed in recent years compared with everyone else. The top
0.1 percent of American families -- each with net assets greater than $20
million -- own more than 20 percent of the all the household wealth in the
country. In the 1970s, that same sliver of the population controlled 7 percent.

That shift is behind Senator Sanders's repeated vow to compel Wall Streeters and
others in the Rolex-and-Maserati set to pay more than they do now.

''Let me tell you, Donald Trump and his billionaire friends under my policies
are going to pay a hell of a lot more in taxes today -- taxes in the future than
they're paying today,'' he declared in Las Vegas.

Middle-income families make substantially less money than they did 15 years ago,
once inflation is taken into account. The economist Thomas Piketty blames, among
other things, ''the spectacular lowering of top income tax rates'' for the sharp
rise in inequality.

The lower rate -- generally a maximum of 23.8 percent -- on capital gains, or
profits from investments, is particularly problematic, Mr. Piketty argues.
Estimates show that nearly 70 percent of capital gains benefits go to the top 1
percent. A recent study by Adam Looney at Brookings and Kevin B. Moore at the
Federal Reserve found that ''the reduction in the long-term capital gains rate
is the primary reason'' that the income tax system had become less effective in
reducing wealth inequality.

Aided by a phalanx of lawyers and accountants, the rich have become adept at
figuring out ways to shift earnings that would normally be taxed at the top 39.6
percent rate on ordinary income into capital gains, said the economist Gabriel
Zucman of the University of California, Berkeley, who is researching the link
between widening inequality and tactics -- legal and illegal -- used by the
wealthy to sidestep taxes.

Shifting earnings from one tax category to another is part of the reason that
even the top 0.1 percent pay on average no more than a quarter of their income
in federal individual income taxes -- despite that top tax bracket of 39.6
percent, according to a Treasury Department analysis.

''Why give a blank check to all of these guys?'' Mr. Stiglitz, the liberal
economist, asked. He pointed out that current tax law makes no distinction
between, say, investing abroad, speculating in land or building a new factory. A
better approach, he said, is to say: ''We'll give you generous deductions if you
invest in America.''

Eliminating the preferential rates on capital and dividends would generate $1.34
trillion over the next 10 years, according to the nonpartisan Congressional
Budget Office.

Other breaks that critics say subsidize wealth inequality include one that
allows people to avoid capital gains taxes on inherited assets. Getting rid of
that adjustment would generate $644 billion over a 10-year period, according to
the Congressional Budget Office.

Ending the deferral on corporate profits kept overseas -- a boon for the wealthy
that Robert S. McIntyre, the director of Citizens for Tax Justice, calls ''the
biggest corporate loophole'' -- would generate $900 billion over 10 years. (Mr.
Trump also supports shutting down that deferral.)

Although an overwhelming proportion of Americans complain that many wealthy
people don't pay their fair share in taxes, Democratic voters are more likely to
be upset about it than Republicans. According to the Pew Research Center survey,
nearly three out of every four Democrats said it bothers them ''a lot'' compared
to 45 percent of Republicans.

Yet the problem that any president -- Democrat or Republican -- is going to face
in altering the tax code is getting Congress to agree. Researchers have
repeatedly found that a top priority of the wealthy is reducing their tax burden
and that they largely prefer, unlike a majority of the general public, to cut
spending rather than raise taxes.

Senator Ron Wyden, the top Democrat on the Finance Committee, said maneuvering
any tax overhaul ''through that gauntlet of special interests is a herculean
task.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/putting-numbers-to-a-tax-increase-for
-the-rich.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bernie Sanders and Hillary Rodham Clinton both support
increasing the tax burden on the wealthiest Americans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH
HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Higher Incomes, Higher Taxes: Taking all
federal taxes into account, the richest taxpayers contribute, on average, about
a third of their income to the government. But they still enjoy after-tax
incomes far higher than other Americans. (Source: Tax Policy Center) (B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES
(90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX
LAW (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC
POLICY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES
(78%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); GIFT TAX (78%); INCOME TAX (77%);
COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%);
POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS
(73%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (72%); POLITICS (72%); MEDICARE (72%);
TARIFFS & DUTIES (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BERNIE SANDERS (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Palestinians Burn Jewish Shrine in West Bank as Clashes Kill 4

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER; Reporting was contributed by Majd Al Waheidi from
Gaza; Rami Nazzal from Ramallah, West Bank; Julie Hirschfeld Davis from
Washington; and Rick Gladstone from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1229 words


JERUSALEM --  Dozens of Palestinians set fire at dawn on Friday to a holy site
known as Joseph's Tomb, in the Palestinian Authority-controlled city of Nablus
in the West Bank, damaging the tiny stone compound that many Jews believe is the
burial place of the son of the biblical patriarch Jacob.

The fire punctuated another day of anti-Israel protests by Palestinians in parts
of the occupied West Bank and in Gaza that left at least four dead and dozens
injured.

The violence drew the increasing concern of the United States, with President
Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry calling for restraint on both sides but
also defending Israel's right to protect its citizens.

Mr. Kerry spoke by telephone with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel
and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority, the State Department
said. It also said Mr. Kerry would probably meet with Mr. Netanyahu in Europe in
the coming days. The date and location have not been set.

The arson fire at Joseph's Tomb has reinforced fears that the latest surge in
Palestinian-Israeli strife is acquiring religious overtones.

Dore Gold, the director general of the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said
in a statement, ''The Palestinian attack on Joseph's Tomb reminds us of the
actions of the most extreme Islamist elements, from Afghanistan to Libya.''

The Israeli military said Palestinian forces had extinguished the blaze.

President Abbas condemned the arson as irresponsible in a statement published by
the official Palestinian news agency, Wafa. The extent of the damage was
unclear, and there was no immediate word of any arrests.

Jewish pilgrims visit the site, adjacent to the Balata refugee camp, a hotbed of
Palestinian militancy. The pilgrimages, about once a month, are made under the
cover of night, with Israeli military escorts,  but none were underway when the
fire broke out.

The desecration was met with outrage in Israel. It follows a wave of Palestinian
stabbing attacks against Israelis, as well as deadly clashes between
Palestinians and Israeli security forces.

The latest violence has been prompted, in large part, by a dispute over Al Aqsa
Mosque compound, a contested holy site in Jerusalem revered by Jews as the
Temple Mount and by Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary.

The Palestinians have accused Israel of plotting to change a decades-old
arrangement under which non-Muslims are allowed to visit the site, but not to
pray there. Israel repeatedly has denied such accusations. Palestinian leaders
have also said Israel risks turning the political conflict into a religious war.

Seven Israelis have been killed in more than two dozen attacks by Palestinians
this month, mostly in Jerusalem, and about 70 have been wounded. About half the
suspected assailants have been fatally shot at the scene. More than 30
Palestinians have been killed, mostly in clashes with Israeli security forces in
the West Bank and along the fence separating Israel and Gaza.

As part of an Israeli security crackdown, police officers and soldiers are
patrolling Israeli cities, and roadblocks have been placed at the entrances of
many Arab neighborhoods in Jerusalem, where the mood was grim and the streets
quiet.

Palestinians declared Friday a ''day of rage'' against Israel.

At a checkpoint in the Hebron area, a Palestinian man posing as a news
photographer stabbed an Israeli soldier, who survived, according to the
military. Israeli forces shot and killed the assailant, and photographs showed
him on the ground wearing a yellow vest and a shirt with a large ''press'' sign.

After midday prayers, protests broke out at friction points across the
Israeli-occupied West Bank and along the Gaza border fence.

A Palestinian was killed in clashes with Israeli forces at a checkpoint in
Nablus, Wafa reported. It identified him as Ehab Hanani, 19.

Two Palestinian men, Yehya Farahat, 20, and Mahmoud Hmeid, 22, were fatally shot
by Israeli forces near the Gaza fence, and more than 100 were injured, according
to Health Ministry officials in Gaza. Hamas, the group that dominates in Gaza,
identified Mr. Farahat as a member of its military wing.

The Israeli military said hundreds of Palestinians had gathered along the border
fence, breaching the buffer zone, throwing rocks, rolling burning tires and
seeking to damage the fence. The military said it was using riot dispersal
equipment and firing toward the main instigators.

Israeli forces fatally shot nine Palestinians during clashes along that border
last weekend. A 10th, Shawki Obeid, 37, died of his wounds on Friday.

This time forces from Hamas turned away protesters and reporters in some areas
close to the border fence. But the protesters reached other points along the
border.

''We want to demonstrate, despite their decision to prevent us,'' said Mohammed
Eleyan, an organizer of the protests, speaking by telephone from the border area
near Nahal Oz. ''We want to resist for Jerusalem, like its people who are dying
and giving their souls for the homeland.''

The Israeli military said it would repair Joseph's Tomb so worshipers could
resume visits.

Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, a spokesman for the military, described the attack as ''a
blatant violation and contradiction of the basic value of freedom of worship.''
He said the military would take ''all measures to bring the perpetrators of this
despicable act to justice.''

Mr. Abbas promised to establish a committee to investigate the arson and called
on ''responsible parties'' to complete the restoration quickly.

Yossi Dagan, the leader of the Samaria Regional Council, which represents the
Jewish settlers in the northern West Bank, called for the Israeli military to
protect the tomb.

Mohammad Abdel Jawwad, 18, a carpenter who lives in the Balata camp, said he was
sitting with friends when he heard about the fire and rushed to investigate.

''By the time we got there, Israeli soldiers had surrounded the entire area and
were already clashing with the youth,'' said Mr. Abdel Jawwad, who went to a
hospital to seek treatment for a wounded hand.

Under the Israeli-Palestinian agreements of the mid-1990s known as the Oslo
peace accords, Israel withdrew from Nablus and the other Palestinian cities but
was assured free access to Jewish holy sites. The Israeli Army turned Joseph's
Tomb into a fortified post, and a small yeshiva continued to operate there.

The tomb became the site of tensions, and in 1996, six Israeli soldiers were
killed there during riots by Palestinians. After the second Palestinian uprising
broke out in September 2000, the tomb was the scene of a battle in which 18
Palestinians and an Israeli border police officer were killed.

To avoid further tensions, the army vacated the tomb and turned over protection
of the site to the Palestinian police.

Joseph is considered a prophet in Islam, and some Muslims declared the tomb a
holy site and painted its dome green. Others believe that the compound is
actually the tomb of a Muslim sheikh called Yusef, the Arabic equivalent of
Joseph.

But to many Jews, Nablus, which has a population of more than 120,000, is the
site of the ancient city of Shechem and part of their biblical birthright. The
tomb, they believe, sits on the parcel of ground that Jacob bought for a hundred
pieces of silver, according to Joshua 24:32, an inheritance of the children of
Joseph.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/middleeast/palestinians-israel-west-bank
-violence.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Palestinian stabbed an Israeli soldier Friday before being
shot dead near Hebron, West Bank. Dozens were injured in unrest. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
REUTERS)
 A Palestinian protester threw back a tear gas round fired by Israeli troops in
clashes on Friday near the Gaza-Israel border. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMMED
SALEM/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); ARSON (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM
(89%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (89%); FIRES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN
SERVICES (88%); VANDALISM (78%); MILITARY OCCUPATIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS
(75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS
(74%); ARRESTS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); SHOOTINGS (70%); REFUGEES (64%);
REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (63%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (79%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (73%); MAHMOUD
ABBAS (58%)

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); AFGHANISTAN (79%);
UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); LIBYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Veterans Affairs Official Overseeing Backlog of Claims Resigns

BYLINE: By DAVE PHILIPPS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 359 words


The Department of Veterans Affairs administrator in charge of reducing the huge
backlog of veterans benefits, who was a frequent target of critics, resigned on
Friday despite a vast reduction in pending claims.

The administrator, Allison A. Hickey, became under secretary for benefits in
2011, overseeing 20,000 employees and benefits for more than 12 million veterans
and their families. During her tenure, she emphasized a changeover from paper to
digital claims, and the backlog in pending benefits claims declined from 611,000
in March 2013 to about 75,000 cases this week.

Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert A. McDonald praised her in a statement,
calling her ''an exceptional colleague and an even better friend,'' and said he
accepted the resignation with regret.

Ms. Hickey, a former Air Force brigadier general, had long been a contentious
figure. The department's own inspector general's office questioned the
reliability of reports of a shrinking backlog, and veterans groups had called
for her removal. She was facing a new congressional inquiry this month into
accusations that executives in her office used their positions to create plush
jobs for themselves and bilk the government of thousands of dollars in moving
expenses.

''She was not cut out for the job of V.A. under secretary for benefits,''
Representative Jeff Miller, Republican of Florida and chairman of the House
Committee on Veterans' Affairs, said in a statement, adding that department
statistics showing the backlog shrank on her watch ''must be taken with a
healthy grain of salt.''

Ms. Hickey was the department's only top official left who had weathered the
scandal of backlogs and wait times that caused the resignation of Secretary Eric
K. Shinseki and the early retirement of the agency's under secretary of health,
Dr. Robert Petzel. Both left in 2014.

The American Legion, one of the largest veterans' organizations, supported her
resignation, saying in a statement, ''Now that the three senior officials that
were in place at V.A. have left office, the American Legion is optimistic that
Secretary McDonald can finally make the cultural changes that he needs.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/us/veterans-affairs-official-overseeing-backlo
g-of-claims-resigns.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Allison Hickey

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERANS (93%); MILITARY BENEFITS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); HEALTH
DEPARTMENTS (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); EARLY RETIREMENT (73%); JOB CREATION (72%);
US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE
(71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (67%)

PERSON: ROBERT A MCDONALD (92%); ERIC K SHINSEKI (58%); JEFF MILLER (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Chief of United Airlines Hospitalized; Cause Is Not Disclosed

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 427 words


United Airlines said that its new chief executive, Oscar Munoz, had been
hospitalized.

United, which is based in Chicago, said in a short statement on Friday that it
was ''continuing to operate normally.'' It did not elaborate on Mr. Munoz's
condition or provide more details. ''Our thoughts and prayers are with his
family and we are respecting their privacy,'' the airline said. He was
hospitalized Thursday.

Mr. Munoz, who is 56, was named to the post last month after the surprise
dismissal of United's previous chief executive, Jeff Smisek, during a corruption
investigation.

In his first month on the job, Mr. Munoz traveled extensively around United's
hubs to speak with employees and pledge a change in direction for the airline.

Since merging with Continental Airlines five years ago, United has suffered from
poor on-time performance and bad employee relations, which led to frustrated
passengers.

Mr. Munoz's arrival was greeted by United's unions, which welcomed a change from
Mr. Smisek's leadership and hoped that a new executive could help improve
relations. Analysts said the company had started expedited contract talks with
pilots.

''There's no doubt that Mr. Munoz's challenges have been extraordinary,'' said
Vicki Bryan, an analyst at Gimme Credit. ''He has taken on one of the largest
airlines in the world in seemingly total disarray with critical failures to
address in network operations, customer service and labor relations -- the list
goes on.''

Before joining United, Mr. Munoz had no operational experience running an
airline. He was formerly a high-ranking railroad executive who was expected to
be the next chief at CSX Corporation.

He has gained insights into the airline business after joining the board of
Continental Airlines in 2004 and of United when the two companies merged.

In an interview this month, he provided a blunt assessment of the level of
discontent he had seen at United within his first few weeks on the job, and he
emphasized that the way to improve customer service was to fix employee
relations first.

''What resonates, and what I feel most of all, is just a complete disengagement
of folks,'' Mr. Munoz said then. ''Maybe that's overly dramatic. It's not
complete disengagement. It's definitely disenchantment.''

United shares fell after the news on Friday and closed down $1.79, or 3 percent,
at $55.97 a share.

The company is scheduled to report its third-quarter earnings on Thursday.
Analysts expect the company to report record quarterly pretax profits after it
recently increased its outlook.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/oscar-munoz-united-airlines-chief-hos
pitalized-after-heart-attack.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In his first month as chief, Oscar Munoz met with employees at
United's hubs and pledged to change the direction of the airline. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
EARL WILSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EMPLOYMENT
(90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERIM
FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); CUSTOMER
RELATIONS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); RAIL
TRANSPORTATION (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); CORRUPTION (55%)

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); CSX CORP (81%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS
INC (57%)

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (81%); UAL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR
OPERATIONS (81%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (81%); SIC4011 RAILROADS,
LINE-HAUL OPERATING (81%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION
(57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%)

PERSON: JEFF SMISEK (79%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (74%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On TV Saturday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 621 words


10 P.M. (HBO) AMY SCHUMER: LIVE AT THE APOLLO Is it safe? Not so much for Ms.
Schumer -- the star of Comedy Central's ''Inside Amy Schumer'' and the film
''Trainwreck'' -- as she turns her attention to her own body in her first
stand-up concert for HBO. Garden gnome. Werewolf. Fat tumbleweed. Those are just
a few of the ways she describes herself while expounding on female stereotypes
and the sometimes piggish ways of men. Then it's time to talk about sex: ''I'd
say in a relationship 50 percent of the time I initiate sex, and then 50 percent
we don't have it.'' Mike Hale, writing in The New York Times, described it as
''a comfortable kind of self-deprecation, born of insecurity but delivered with
a confidence that takes the sting out and gives the listener a snug feeling of
complicity.'' He added, ''There are comics who inspire more raucous, helpless
laughter, but no one has the audience so completely on her side.''

10:30 A.M. (13) RELIGION & ETHICS NEWSWEEKLY Fred de Sam Lazaro visits Casa del
Migrante, a shelter in northern Mexico created by a Jesuit priest as a safe
haven for migrants seeking refuge in the United States.

NOON (13) THE OPEN MIND John Opdycke, the president of Open Primaries, talks
about nonpartisan elections.

8 P.M. (TCM) THE ESSENTIALS: SET IN ARIZONA Robert Osborne and Sally Field
explain why Martin Scorsese's ''Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore'' (1975) --
starring an Oscar-winning Ellen Burstyn as Alice Hyatt, who heads to California
with her son to pursue her passion after her husband's sudden death -- is
required viewing. Among the reasons: Harvey Keitel as the small-town sadist who
traps Alice for a while; Kris Kristofferson as the rancher who finally wins her;
and Diane Ladd and Valerie Curtin as the waitresses in a diner where she works.
''Their marvelous contributions in small roles are a measure of the film's
quality and of Mr. Scorsese's fully realized talents as one of the best of the
new American filmmakers,'' Vincent Canby wrote in The Times.

9 P.M. (CUNY) SMILES OF A SUMMER NIGHT (1957) A lawyer asks his former mistress
how to best treat his young wife, who is drawn to his angst-ridden son -- take a
breath -- while the mistress, who still fancies the lawyer, has her hands full
with her married lover, whose wife intends to get him back by seducing the
lawyer. Got it? Gunnar Bjornstrand, Harriet Andersson, Ulla Jacobsson and Eva
Dahlbeck star in Ingmar Bergman's erotic comedy, which Bosley Crowther, writing
in The Times, called ''as witty and cheerfully candid about the complexities of
love as any recent French essay on l'amour.'' John Simon, the critic and author
of ''Ingmar Bergman Directs,'' untangles it all afterward.

10 P.M. (Centric) ACCORDING TO ALEX Whoopi Goldberg's daughter, Alex Martin
Dean, gets her own reality show.

11:30 P.M. (NBC) SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE Tracy Morgan returns to the ''S.N.L.''
stage as host more than a year after he was critically injured in an automobile
accident. Demi Lovato, whose ''Confident'' album dropped Friday, is the musical
guest.

What's Streaming Now

KUNG FU MASTER! (1988) Jane Birkin plays a lonely 40-year-old mother who falls
in love with one of her daughters' teenage schoolmates. She stalks him in video
arcades; he invites her to meet him in a hotel bar to celebrate the removal of
his braces. It's not lurid -- the most explicit scene shows them snuggling in a
sleeping bag -- but it is occasionally silly. Agnès Varda directed this family
affair, starring her son and Ms. Birkin's daughters, and its companion piece,
''Jane B. par Agnes V.'' (1987), what Ms. Varda called ''an imaginary biopic''
of Ms. Birkin, the singer, actress, fashion plate and muse to Serge Gainsbourg.
(fandor.com)




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/arts/television/whats-on-tv-saturday.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG BLANKENHORN/HBO
 PHOTOFEST)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); ACADEMY AWARDS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS
(72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (69%); ELECTIONS (69%);
RELIGION (65%)

PERSON: AMY SCHUMER (94%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (78%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

CNBC Meets Trump's Terms for Debate

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MARTIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FIRST DRAFT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 253 words


CNBC will allow the Republican presidential candidates 30-second opening and
closing statements at a debate this month, bowing to the demands of Donald J.
Trump and other leading candidates that they be allowed to introduce themselves.

The Oct. 28 debate at the Coors Events Center in Boulder, Colo., will last two
hours, including commercials, another accommodation to Mr. Trump, who was
unhappy with the length of the three-hour Republican debate last month in
California.

Officials from the Republican National Committee telephoned senior operatives to
the campaigns on Friday to relay the news.

Mr. Trump and Ben Carson, who are leading in many polls of the Republican field,
led the push on the opening statements and time limit, threatening to boycott
the forum if their demands were not met.

''The campaigns have figured out if they act collectively they can effect
change,'' said one top strategist to a Republican hopeful.

By moving to adjust the format, CNBC may be setting a precedent for the other
media organizations sponsoring debates. The presence of Mr. Trump in the race
led to record-shattering viewership of first two Republican forums. Were the
provocative real estate magnate not to appear at future debates, the audience
could sharply drop off.

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/2015/10/16/cnbc-gives-in-to-donald-t
rump-on-details-of-the-debate/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (78%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(54%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (92%); BEN CARSON (58%)

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Blood Test Start-Up Faces F.D.A. Scrutiny

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK and REED ABELSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 826 words


Theranos, a closely watched start-up that vowed to revolutionize medical
testing, said on Friday that because of questions raised by the Food and Drug
Administration, it had temporarily halted its trademark practice of collecting
tiny blood samples from finger pricks.

The privately held Theranos has reportedly been valued at more than $9 billion,
roughly akin to the laboratory giants Quest and LabCorp. That is based on
Theranos's purported ability to perform dozens of medical tests using only drops
of blood from a finger, rather than the conventional larger vials collected from
the crook of the arm.

Elizabeth Holmes, the company's 31-year-old founder -- who dropped out of
Stanford to start the company and has now become one of the youngest self-made
female billionaires ever -- has often been depicted in photographs holding a
tiny tube of blood that the company calls a ''nanotainer.''

But the company, which is based in Silicon Valley, said on Friday that the
F.D.A. believed the nanotainer needed regulatory approval as a medical device.
So the company said it had decided to stop using it, except for one test, while
it applies for approval.

The company's action was reported by The Wall Street Journal, which said the
F.D.A. was concerned about the company's data and had conducted an unannounced
inspection. The Journal also raised questions about the reliability of
Theranos's tests and said that most of the tests the company ran were done on
standard laboratory equipment bought from other vendors, not its proprietary
system that it has promoted as a disruptive technology in the industry.

Theranos, in a statement and interviews, vigorously defended the accuracy of its
tests.

''The issue here is not an issue relating to the reliability of the tests that
are being performed,'' David Boies, the company's outside lawyer, said in an
interview. ''We haven't had any indication about a problem of the accuracy of
the test, and we've done more than three million tests.''

Mr. Boies said earlier this year that the company started offering tests in
Arizona, not just in California, where its main laboratory is. Under some legal
theories, he said, that interstate business would subject the nanotainers to
regulation.

But he said the nanotainer was only the transport device. The company can still
run blood samples collected from the arm on its proprietary testing system. Mr.
Boies said that just a minority of the tests were being run on its proprietary
machine, but that the plan was to eventually conduct all of the tests on that
system. He also said the company was regularly subject to inspections.

The F.D.A. declined to comment.

The agency typically does not regulate tests that are developed by and performed
at a single laboratory. Theranos, unlike most laboratory companies, has said it
would voluntarily submit its tests for F.D.A. approval. It has already received
one approval, on a test for herpes simplex virus type 1, and will continue to
use the nanotainer for that test.

Still, it is possible that the F.D.A. is using its review of the nanotainer
device as a convenient way to put a check on Theranos because of other concerns.
Five years ago, for instance, the agency grew concerned about a genetic test,
performed on saliva samples, that was being sold to consumers through Walgreens
pharmacies. The F.D.A. put a stop to that in part by saying the saliva
collection device needed regulatory approval.

While Theranos is privately held, the company and Ms. Holmes have been very much
in the public eye. Ms. Holmes, who almost always wears black turtlenecks much
like those of Steve Jobs, has appeared on the television show ''Charlie Rose,''
hosted a visit by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and has been featured on
the covers of magazines including Inc. and The New York Times's T Magazine.

But even before this week there has been skepticism, in part engendered by what
some view as the company's obsession with secrecy. Departing from the norms of
medicine, Theranos has not published papers in scientific journals about how its
test works and how accurate it is. Its board of directors consists mainly of
aging former cabinet members like Henry A. Kissinger and George P. Shultz, and
retired military officers, rather than scientists or people with experience in
the laboratory business.

The company has received endorsements from partners. Most of its 44
blood-drawing centers are in Walgreens drugstores in Arizona, which are expected
to be expanded to other states. Walgreens referred questions about the tests to
Theranos, but said on Friday, ''We have continued to evaluate next steps for
further expansion, and that hasn't changed.''

Theranos has also forged separate partnerships with the Cleveland Clinic and
with AmeriHealth Caritas, a large insurer specializing in Medicaid. But
spokeswomen for both of them said their organizations did not yet have any
experience with Theranos's technology.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/theranos-a-blood-test-start-up-faces-
fda-scrutiny.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elizabeth Holmes, chief of Theranos, with former President Bill
Clinton at a Clinton Global Initiative meeting in September. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS) (B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS  SCREENING &
TESTING (90%); INTERVIEWS (87%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (78%);
MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); INSPECTIONS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%);
INTERSTATE COMMERCE (68%); DISRUPTIVE INNOVATION (50%)

COMPANY: LABORATORY CORP OF AMERICA HOLDINGS (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%)

TICKER: LH (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS621511 MEDICAL LABORATORIES (57%); SIC8071 MEDICAL LABORATORIES
(57%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH HOLMES (90%); BILL CLINTON (74%)

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Odom Is Responsive

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | BASKETBALL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 125 words


Lamar Odom, a former basketball player and reality television star, has regained
consciousness just days after being found unresponsive at a Nevada brothel.
Alvina Alston, a publicist for JaNean Mercer, Odom's maternal aunt and
godmother, said that Odom had spoken and given a thumbs-up on Friday morning. It
was his first communication since being hospitalized in critical condition in
Las Vegas on Tuesday.

â-  Derrick Williams scored 19 points in another strong preseason performance,
and the Knicks beat the Boston Celtics, 101-95, at Madison Square Garden.
Williams, the No. 2 overall pick in the 2011 draft who struggled in Minnesota
and Sacramento, made a 3-pointer with 2 minutes 11 seconds left after the
Celtics had closed to 2 points down.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/basketball/odom-is-responsive.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (88%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON CELTICS (83%)

PERSON: LAMAR ODOM (92%)

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (53%)

STATE: NEVADA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%); MINNESOTA, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nadal Notches a Win

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | TENNIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 153 words


Rafael Nadal beat a top-five player for the first time in more than a year with
a 6-2, 6-1 win over Stan Wawrinka to reach the semifinals of the Shanghai
Masters. Novak Djokovic also advanced, holding off Bernard Tomic in a tight
first-set tiebreaker before closing it out, 7-6 (6), 6-1. Nadal had not won
against a top-five player since last year's French Open final, when he defeated
Djokovic for his 14th Grand Slam title.

Nadal will play Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the semifinals after Tsonga topped Kevin
Anderson, 7-6 (6), 5-7, 6-4. Djokovic will play Andy Murray, a 6-1, 6-3 winner
over Tomas Berdych.

â-  Venus Williams closed in on a spot in the season-ending WTA Finals by
beating AlizÃ© Cornet, 6-1, 6-1, to reach the Hong Kong Open semifinals.
Williams will meet Jelena Jankovic, who beat Daria Gavrilova, 6-1, 6-1.
Angelique Kerber and Samantha Stosur also advanced and will face each other in
the semifinals.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/tennis/nadal-notches-a-win.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS AWARDS (78%)

PERSON: RAFAEL NADAL (91%); ANDY MURRAY (79%); NOVAK DJOKOVIC (78%); JO-WILFRIED
TSONGA (73%); VENUS WILLIAMS (72%)

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chances Improve for U.S. to Host the Copa América

BYLINE: By ANDREW DAS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 579 words


The troubled Copa América Centenario soccer tournament, planned to be held in
the United States in 2016 but imperiled by its ties to the FIFA corruption
scandal, could be in position to go ahead after all.

South America's soccer confederation, Conmebol, announced Friday that it had cut
ties with a controversial company, Datisa, that held the marketing rights to the
Centenario, according to Reuters. The tournament would bring top stars like
Lionel Messi of Argentina and Neymar of Brazil to the United States for a
monthlong, 16-team tournament in June.

U.S. Soccer officials refused to confirm the Reuters report Friday night, but
the severing of ties would remove the biggest objection of American organizers.

The tournament, a special edition of the biennial South American championship,
was created in 2014 to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Copa América. But
in an indictment released in May, the United States Justice Department painted a
picture of the event as little more than a criminal enterprise set up to bribe
top soccer officials.

The indictment said the main investors in Datisa conspired to win and keep hold
of lucrative media-rights contracts from regional soccer confederations through
the payment of up to $110 million in bribes. Several of those investors were
among the executives arrested in a sweep of top soccer officials in Zurich in
May.

Given Datisa's direct ties to the FIFA corruption scandal, United States Soccer
has refused to host the tournament with the company as a partner.

U.S. Soccer officials have been pressing Conmebol, which runs the Copa América,
to end the agreement. They even skipped a meeting in Mexico City in September
that had been called to try to save the troubled tournament. If the biggest
stumbling block were removed, an announcement of the tournament's dates and host
cities could come soon.

GERMANY DENIES BRIBES The German football federation denied allegations that it
used bribes to secure the 2006 World Cup.

The newsmagazine Der Spiegel reported Friday that a slush fund of 10.3 million
Swiss francs (about $6 million at the time) was used to secure four votes from
FIFA's 24-member executive committee. The German federation called the report
''completely baseless.''

The federation said it disputes ''the authors' conclusions, made without any
facts, that votes were bought in this context for the awarding of the World
Cup'' and that neither the federation's president ''nor the other members of the
organizing committee were involved or could have known about such operations.''

The federation said it reserved the right to take legal action against Der
Spiegel.

FIFA called the magazine's allegations ''serious'' and said they would be
reviewed. (AP)

CITY F.C. FALLS TO ORLANDO Cyle Larin scored twice in an eight-minute span in
the second half, and Orlando City beat visiting New York City F.C., 2-1, to keep
its playoff hopes alive.

Orlando City (12-13-8) has won five straight games to move within a point of
sixth-place Montreal for the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference.

Kwame Watson-Siriboe gave New York City (10-16-7) a 1-0 lead in the second
minute of first-half stoppage time. Mix Diskerud's shot from distance deflected
off a crowd in front of the goal, and Watson-Siriboe one-touched the loose ball
into the back of the net.

Larin tied it in the 62nd minute after heading in Corey Ashe's cross. Eight
minutes later, Larin made it 2-1 on a counterattack. (AP)




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/soccer/move-may-eliminate-stumbling-blo
ck-to-hosting-2016-copa-america-in-us.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (96%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%);
SCANDALS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); 2015 FIFA
CORRUPTION SCANDAL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); BRIBERY
(90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); FIFA WORLD CUP (89%);
AGREEMENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LITIGATION
(73%); ARRESTS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); WRITERS (60%);
SUITS & CLAIMS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); US
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

PERSON: LIONEL MESSI (88%)

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); ZURICH (79%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); GERMANY (93%); SWITZERLAND
(79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stirring Up the Restaurant World

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 440 words


Danny Meyer has spoken. Will the restaurant industry and political leaders
listen?

Mr. Meyer, the New York restaurateur and head of the Union Square Hospitality
Group, announced this week that tipping would be ended at the group's 13
restaurants, including upscale spots like the Gramercy Tavern and the Union
Square Cafe.

The no-tip policy is intended to close the widening wage gap between servers who
earn tips and kitchen staff who don't. According to Mr. Meyer, ending tips and
raising menu prices will allow non-tipped employees to be paid more, while
server pay and the overall cost to eat out remain about the same.

This particular wage gap, however, is only one of the many corrosive aspects of
tipping, and it mainly afflicts people working at high-end restaurants. The real
power in Mr. Meyer's no-tip policy is its potential to force a broader debate on
tipped work, including how to change laws that have made tipped work a path to
poverty for most servers.

Under federal law, employers can pay tipped workers as little as $2.13 an hour,
as long as that amount plus tips is at least the federal minimum wage of $7.25
an hour. States can set higher minimums, but most follow the federal law or have
their own two-tiered systems.

Subminimum tipped wages reflect historical gender gaps in the restaurant
industry, where most servers are women and are low paid. The restaurant lobby
has fought successfully to keep server pay down, and the result, borne out in
census data, is a high rate of poverty among servers.

Democratic bills now before Congress would end the subminimum tipped wage in
favor of a single federal minimum for all workers, either $12 or $15 an hour.
But passage will require supportive congressional majorities that have yet to
materialize.

In the meantime, states need to do more, especially New York, where Mr. Meyer
has gotten people talking about restaurant workers. Earlier this year, a wage
board convened by Gov. Andrew Cuomo squandered the chance to end the state's
two-tiered minimum wage. Instead, it called for raising the tipped minimum, now
$5 an hour, to $7.25 by the end of 2015.

That is well short of the scheduled increase of the non-tipped minimum wage to
$9 an hour. Although Mr. Cuomo in September called for a statewide minimum of
$15 an hour, it remains to be seen whether any eventual increase will include
tipped workers.

No state should have a separate and unequal wage system in which restaurants
profit by underpaying workers -- nor should the nation as a whole.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/opinion/stirring-up-the-restaurant-world.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (95%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EQUAL PAY (90%); INCOME
DISTRIBUTION (90%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (90%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE
INDUSTRY (90%); GRATUITIES & TIPS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%);
RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (90%); HOSPITALITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES
(89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); PRICES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); SERVICE WORKERS
(76%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (76%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (73%); MENU PRICES
(73%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); POVERTY RATES (67%); GENDER
& SEX DISCRIMINATION (65%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%); CENSUS (52%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(50%)

PERSON: DANNY MEYER (92%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Great 'Sanctuary City' Slander

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 830 words


Lawmakers in Washington and around the country are in an uproar over what they
derisively call ''sanctuary cities.'' These are jurisdictions that limit
cooperation with federal immigration enforcement, or try in other ways to
protect unauthorized immigrants from unjust deportation.

The Senate is voting Tuesday on a bill from David Vitter of Louisiana to punish
these cities by denying them federal law-enforcement funds. The House passed its
version in July. North Carolina's Legislature has passed a bill forbidding
sanctuary policies. Lawmakers in Michigan and Texas are seeking similar laws.

These laws are a false fix for a concocted problem. They are based on the lie,
now infecting the Republican presidential campaign, that all unauthorized
immigrants are dangerous criminals who must be subdued by extraordinary means.

The laws are a class-action slander against an immigrant population that has
been scapegoated for the crimes of a few, and left stranded by the failure of
legislative reform that would open a path for them to live fully within the law.
And because crackdowns on sanctuary cities seek to thwart sound law-enforcement
policies and the integration of immigrants, they are an invitation to more crime
and mayhem, not less.

This is not what the Republicans want you to believe. They have seized on the
tragic death of a woman, Kathryn Steinle, shot in July on a San Francisco pier
by an unauthorized Mexican immigrant, to denounce that city's sanctuary policies
and those of other cities. Donald Trump, who began his campaign by slandering
Mexico as a nation of drug-toting rapists, used the accused, Juan Francisco
Lopez-Sanchez, as exhibit A. Like a racist pied piper, Mr. Trump has gotten his
party to fall in line behind him. Two of his rivals, the demagogic Ted Cruz and
the former immigration moderate Marco Rubio, have signed on to the Vitter bill.

Mr. Lopez-Sanchez was a homeless man with drug convictions but no record of
violent crime; the bullet he fired was found to have ricocheted off the pier,
suggesting that he had not targeted anyone. The suggestion that it was a
horrific accident could well be true. What is clearly false is the claim that he
moved to San Francisco to take advantage of its sanctuary policies. He was sent
there by federal officials to answer an old, minor drug charge, then released.

Republicans tend not to be moved by senseless gun violence. But here was a case
they couldn't resist. They have turned Mr. Lopez-Sanchez, absurdly, into a
stand-in for 11 million unauthorized immigrants living in the United States.

For this case of collective guilt by association, President Obama and his first
homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano, share some blame. They were the
ones who greatly expanded the deportation machinery in a program called Secure
Communities, proudly broadcasting their efforts to deport ''criminal aliens.''
It was a tragically misguided attempt to gain, through extreme harshness,
Republican support for immigration reform.

It failed. And Mr. Obama's unprecedented deportations of more than two million
people, many of them not criminals at all, are what made the sanctuary-city
movement necessary in the first place.

The country needs more sanctuary cities. It needs them to underscore what should
be a bright line between civil immigration enforcement, a federal
responsibility, and the state and local criminal-justice systems.

It's odd to see Republicans muddying that line. They tend to like it when states
act like policy laboratories, filling the gaps where the federal government has
failed -- except when it comes to treating recent immigrants with common sense
and decency. Then they love a monolithic enforcement state, one that commandeers
local and state resources in a united push to get millions of people --
including those with minor infractions or no criminal records at all -- out of
the country.

That is Mr. Trump's policy. Any sanctuary-city crackdown should be called
Trump's Law, but with a hat tip to Mr. Obama, who was legitimizing the
conflation of immigrants and criminals long before Mr. Trump weighed in. Long
after both men leave the scene, that damage will still be with us.

The best hope for a return to sanity lies not in Washington but locally. More
than 320 jurisdictions have policies, like California's Trust Act, to
disentangle themselves from the federal deportation dragnet. They recognize that
communities are safer and crime is reduced when law-abiding immigrants don't
fear and shun the police, and when they have access to services like libraries
and banks.

The answer to an immigrant population in the shadows is -- as it has been
throughout our history -- integration and welcome instead of scapegoating and
oppression. And leaving local law enforcement free to focus on catching
criminals and protecting public safety.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/opinion/the-great-sanctuary-city-slander.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MIKEY BURTON)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%);
LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%);
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES
(89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012
(89%); DEPORTATION (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); US STATE
GOVERNMENT (79%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
(77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%);
SHOOTINGS (70%); SEX OFFENSES (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); CLASS ACTIONS (68%);
NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

PERSON: TED CRUZ (79%); JANET NAPOLITANO (79%); DONALD TRUMP (79%); MARCO RUBIO
(57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); DAVID VITTER (56%)

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%);
CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Russia and Allies to Watch for Threat From Afghanistan

BYLINE: By IVAN NECHEPURENKO

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 520 words


MOSCOW --  Russia and its allies will have to step up their military activity in
the border regions near Afghanistan to prevent militants fanning out from the
conflict there to Central Asia and possibly to Syria, President Vladimir V.
Putin and senior Russian officials said on Friday, Russian news agencies
reported.

''Terrorists of all kinds are gaining influence and do not hide their plans for
further expansion,'' Mr. Putin told a meeting of the leaders of the Commonwealth
of Independent States, a grouping of former Soviet republics, in a resort town
in Kazakhstan, in remarks carried on the presidential website. ''One of their
goals is to break through into the Central Asian region.''

He added, ''It is important that we be ready for coordinated action to respond
to any such attempts.''

The leaders of the group, composed of former Soviet states, agreed to establish
a joint task force to protect their borders against external threats from
Afghanistan.

Mr. Putin spoke a day after the White House said it would extend the United
States' military mission in Afghanistan until at least 2017. The Russian
government swiftly interpreted the policy shift as an admission of a
deteriorating situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban recently overran the
city of Kunduz, before retreating two weeks later.

As envisioned at the meeting on Friday, the new effort would increase the number
of border guards and other security officers, as well as forming a
rapid-reaction force to respond to any crises on the border with Afghanistan.

In recent days, militant leaders in Syria have issued threats of violence
against Russians in retaliation for the bombing campaign Moscow is conducting to
aid the forces of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. Mr. Putin himself
acknowledged Friday that as many as 7,000 militants may have migrated from
Russia and the former Soviet states to join the Islamic State in Syria.

Among the commonwealth states, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan each
share a border with Afghanistan.

This would not be the first time that the Kremlin has asserted that the
terrorist threat to Central Asia arises from the United States' actions in
Afghanistan. But analysts have often accused Moscow of deliberately exaggerating
the threat to justify an expansion of its military and political presence in the
region.

On Friday, Russia's Foreign Ministry denounced Mr. Obama's decision to halt the
scheduled withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan as ''another testimony of a
complete failure of Washington's 14-year military campaign.''

Russia has a military base in Tajikistan and an air base in Kyrgyzstan, where
the current government closed a United States Air Force base in 2012.

Russia had indicated on Thursday that it was slowing the pace of airstrikes in
Syria because the military had concluded the militants were in retreat.

On Friday, Mr. Putin indicated that the pace and duration of the bombing
campaign would be determined by the results on the battlefield. ''Our operation
is limited in time to the Syrian Army's offensive against terrorists,'' he said,
without elaborating.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/europe/russia-and-allies-to-raise-guard-
at-borders-with-afghanistan.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BORDER CONTROL (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); MILITARY
OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY BASES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM
(78%); TERRORISM (78%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (78%); BOMBINGS
(78%); AIR FORCES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TALIBAN
(78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US AIR FORCE (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN
SERVICES (72%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (57%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%);
CENTRAL ASIA (94%); SYRIA (94%); ASIA (94%); TAJIKISTAN (92%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%);
KAZAKHSTAN (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); TURKMENISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rubio Comes Out Strong for Drilling and Fracking

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and CORAL DAVENPORT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 911 words


SALEM, Ohio --  Senator Marco Rubio traveled on Friday to eastern Ohio, with its
vast underground natural gas deposits, and laid out an energy policy that would
rely on drilling and hydraulic fracturing and roll back many of the most
aggressive components of President Obama's environmental agenda.

Mr. Rubio said he would immediately allow construction of the Keystone XL oil
pipeline to go forward, which Mr. Obama has yet to commit to. Mr. Rubio would
also permit more offshore oil and gas drilling, which the president has already
expanded, and effectively nullify an international climate change accord the
administration is pursuing.

And he vowed to reverse Environmental Protection Agency regulations on
greenhouse gas emissions and hydraulic fracturing, known as fracking, to allow
the extraction of gas buried deep in the ground near places like Salem.

Taking issue with what he described as a Democratic ''fear campaign'' against
fracking, he said that the hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of natural gas
and oil underneath the ground ''are doing the people of Ohio no good pent-up in
shale rock.''

If his words left any doubt about the intended beneficiaries of his energy plan,
the setting he chose spoke volumes: a company that makes equipment used to drill
and refine fossil fuels, BOC Water Hydraulics.

Mr. Rubio's speech emphasized extracting natural resources from the ground, as
opposed to investing in less polluting options like wind or solar power, and
struck a combative tone. He promised the crowd of about 300 that there would be
major differences in how a Rubio administration would balance energy policy with
environmental protection and how a Democratic White House would.

''It is innovation, not regulation, that will prompt the development of
affordable fuel alternatives,'' he said. ''That is why conservatives, not
liberals, have the more sustainable energy agenda.''

To emphasize his point, he reached for a religious reference. He said that the
Obama administration had issued nearly 30,000 pages of new regulations, which he
noted was ''about 46 times the length of the Bible.''

And he named Hillary Rodham Clinton one of the biggest impediments to growth in
the energy industry.

''This is what I mean when I say Democrats like Hillary Clinton are outdated,''
he said. ''They label themselves 'progressives,' yet take great pride in
opposing economic progress.''

Mr. Rubio shares his Republican rivals' distaste for Mr. Obama's efforts to
negotiate an international accord to combat climate change. And his plan appears
explicitly intended to weaken the president's hand as Mr. Obama tries to reach
an agreement with other United Nations members at a climate conference in Paris
in December.

While Mr. Obama hopes that such a deal will be a cornerstone of his legacy, the
ultimate success of the accord hinges on whether his successor will actually
carry it out -- and Mr. Rubio's plan makes clear that a President Rubio would
not do so. In fact, his plan would require congressional ratification of any
international climate agreements, something highly unlikely in the current
Republican-led Congress.

In the absence of support from Congress, Mr. Obama has relied on new E.P.A rules
to push his environmental agenda. In August, he unveiled his most ambitious and
contentious regulations to date: a set of limits on planet-warming carbon
emissions from coal-fired power plants. If enacted, the rules could close
hundreds of coal plants in the United States, lower domestic demand for coal and
transform the nation's electricity system to rely more heavily on renewable
sources of energy.

Less noticeable in Mr. Rubio's speech was the political subtext. Ohio does not
hold one of the early presidential nominating contests, as Iowa and New
Hampshire do. But it is home to one of Mr. Rubio's rivals for the Republican
presidential nomination: Gov. John Kasich. Mr. Rubio has now visited Ohio, which
Republicans will almost certainly have to carry in 2016 to win the White House,
several times since August for fund-raising events and campaign rallies.

His speech was also certain to please the energy sector executives who pour
hundreds of millions of dollars into Republican political campaigns.
Environmental groups scoffed at the proposals, saying Mr. Rubio's plan could
have been written by the industry itself.

''Senator Rubio's energy policies may impress the Koch brothers,'' said Denis
Dison, communications director for the NRDC Action Fund. ''But American voters
are growing tired of his kind of slavish devotion to old, dirty energy sources
that threaten our kids' futures.''

In contrast to how environmental concerns have dominated the Democratic
nominating contest, Republicans almost never mention the subject, and when they
do, it is often to diminish or dismiss the threat of global warming. Mr. Rubio's
speech was no different. It did not mention the term ''climate change'' once. In
fact, he mocked Democrats for being obsessed with it.

''If we elect Hillary Clinton as president,'' he said, ''an outdated leader who
believes President Obama's restrictions haven't gone far enough, who believes
that energy policy is more about trying to change the weather than it is about
empowering our people -- then we will miss out on one of the greatest economic
opportunities of this century.''

Mrs. Clinton has pledged, if elected, to fully carry out and expand on Mr.
Obama's climate change regulations.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/us/politics/marco-rubios-energy-policy-centers
-on-drilling-and-reversing-obama-rules.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Marco Rubio laid out his energy policy Friday at
BOCWater Hydraulics, which makes drilling equipment, in Ohio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
SCOTT R. GALVIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (93%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NATURAL GAS
(90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016
(90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS
EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY
(90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%);
ENERGY & UTILITY REGULATION & POLICY (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); US
PRESIDENTS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS
(89%); CONSERVATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES
(78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%);
AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); AGREEMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION
(78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%);
NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW
(77%); POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (77%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (77%);
TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%);
OFFSHORE OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (73%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (71%);
ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (65%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); BIOFUELS (65%);
CONSERVATISM (62%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: MARCO RUBIO (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (95%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Comparing Candidates' Safety Net Proposals

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; RETIRING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1691 words


At 81, Sara Moore still occasionally drives five blocks to the grocery store in
her 1993 Buick, which her son had painted pink for breast cancer awareness. She
is a survivor.

She also survives on a Social Security check of just $984 a month. After rent
and cable television, she said her largest expense was food. She hunts for
specials, like the 10 frozen Lean Cuisine dinners she recently bought for $10.
Fresh fruits and vegetables are a splurge, but she said she skips extras like
ice cream.

''I just manage,'' said Ms. Moore, of Chicago, who was a certified nursing
assistant before her cancer was diagnosed in 2001. After all her monthly bills
are paid -- she also receives food deliveries from a local pantry -- she has
roughly $50 left.

Like Ms. Moore, millions of retirees rely heavily on modest checks from Social
Security. The average monthly benefit is $1,337, and about 64 percent of
beneficiaries older than 65 receive at least half of their income from the
program, according to the Social Security Administration. For nearly half of
unmarried beneficiaries, it accounts for a whopping 90 percent of income.

With the race for the 2016 presidential nominations well underway, candidates
have begun floating proposals to shore up the program's finances. For years,
most of the plans that have been offered to ensure that the self-financing
program can support itself have relied largely on cutting benefits.

But now Democrats like Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and the former Maryland
governor Martin O'Malley are trying to reverse the usual conversation, calling
for an expansion of the program by requiring higher-income workers to pay more
in payroll taxes, the dedicated tax stream that pays for the benefits.

In contrast, most Republicans, adamantly opposed to any tax increases, continue
to offer proposals that focus on cutting benefits, in ways that critics say
could harm the most vulnerable retirees, while doing little to overcome the
system's financial imbalance.

''Americans are living longer,'' Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, who is
seeking the Republican nomination, said in a campaign speech in April in New
Hampshire. ''This is something to celebrate but, at the same time, we can't
ignore the real effect that has on Social Security.''

In the same speech, Mr. Christie called for gradually raising the retirement age
for future retirees, a change championed by several other Republican candidates,
including former Gov. Jeb Bush and Senator Marco Rubio. both of Florida.

But not everyone is living longer. Average life expectancies have grown in the
last century, but better-paid, better-educated people tend to live longer than
people who earn less. And the gap between them has grown over time, a recent
report has shown. In fact, life expectancy has declined slightly for lower
earners.

''I have never been a fan of raising the retirement age,'' said Peter Orszag, a
former budget director for President Obama, who recently wrote a congressionally
mandated report on Social Security for the National Academies of Sciences,
Engineering and Medicine.

''Anyone who is making the argument that we should raise the retirement age
because of an increase in the life expectancy -- that argument, I think, is
fundamentally misguided and misleading,'' Mr. Orszag said. ''The average is
masking quite different patterns depending where you are on the income
distribution.''

Each year the ''full'' retirement age is raised translates into a benefit cut of
nearly 7 percent for future retirees who are affected. The full retirement age
is already scheduled to rise from 66 to 67 -- for people born after 1959 --
which will hold down benefits for that group.

Consider an individual who would receive a full benefit of $2,000 a month at age
67 under current law. She would receive $1,600 a month at age 67 if the full
retirement age were raised to 70, according to the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities. Instead of receiving $2,480 at age 70 under current law, she would
have to wait until 70 to get $2,000.

The fact that people are living longer is not the main reason the Social
Security Trust Fund is expected to be depleted by 2034, when incoming payroll
taxes may only be enough to pay 79 percent of promised benefits. According to
the Social Security Administration, the increase in longevity accounts for 20
percent of the program's long-term shortfall.

The most significant issue, according to Stephen C. Goss, the agency's chief
actuary, is that fewer workers are paying taxes into the program -- given a
lower birthrate -- while more retirees are collecting their checks.

Though presidential candidates from opposing parties have starkly different
approaches to closing that gap, most Americans, across the ideological spectrum,
are opposed to any further benefit reductions, according to a Pew Research
Center poll last year. Over all, more than two-thirds said that benefit cuts
should not be an option. And majorities in every group, including nearly 59
percent of ''consistently conservative'' individuals, agreed.

Aware of the public opposition to cuts in Social Security, Governor Christie has
emphasized a feature of his plan that eliminates benefits for the wealthiest
Americans, arguing that will help ensure the program's survival for younger
workers. But many of his proposals amount to a series of cuts that do little to
improve the program's more immediate solvency issues, according to an analysis
by the Urban Institute.

''The Christie proposal does nothing to help Social Security's solvency problems
before 2034, when current law trust fund balances are projected to be
depleted,'' said Karen Smith, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute, who ran
the analysis. ''His proposal reduces program revenue and does not reduce
benefits enough soon enough to make Social Security solvent.''

It would help lower costs for future generations, in part by gradually raising
the full retirement age by two months a year, beginning in 2022, until it
reaches 69. Governor Christie would also gradually increase the early retirement
age to 64 from 62, which is when retirees can now begin claiming benefits at a
reduced rate. Separately, to encourage older people to work longer, he would
eliminate payroll taxes for those over age 62.

His plan also introduces a means test: Future retirees with retirement income of
more than $80,000 -- outside of Social Security benefits -- would receive lower
benefits on a sliding scale, with benefits phasing out altogether for those with
$200,000 or more. Critics, however, say that move would save very little money,
while threatening the broad appeal of the program.

''We should worry about turning a program that has gotten its strength from
being a program that everyone pays into and gets benefits out of into a welfare
program,'' said Joan Entmacher, vice president for family economic security at
the National Women's Law Center. Besides, she added, ''you can't get much
savings out of means-testing Social Security unless you go after the middle
class.''

Lastly, Governor Christie would slow the growth of beneficiaries' monthly
checks, which rise with inflation so that retirees maintain their purchasing
power. He would adopt an inflation measure that is projected to rise about 0.3
percentage points slower each year.

But retiree advocates and other specialists, including some conservatives who
want to shave benefits, say the change would hurt the most vulnerable retirees,
because they would feel a tighter pinch as they aged.

''If we are going to cut Social Security benefits, and I think we should, I want
to cut for the younger retirees who can work longer,'' said Andrew Biggs,
resident scholar of the American Enterprise Institute and a former principal
deputy commissioner at the Social Security Administration. ''Not those who are
older and can't.''

Senator Sanders's proposal takes the opposite approach; it would increase
retirees' monthly checks. His plan, which would make the trust fund solvent
through 2065, would raise payroll taxes on higher-earning households. Now,
employees owe payroll taxes of 6.2 percent of their income -- their employers
pay another 6.2 percent -- up to the current cap of $118,500 in earnings.

At first, the Sanders plan would not apply payroll taxes to earnings between
$118,500 and $250,000, but it would apply to earnings above that amount. Since
the payroll cap generally rises over time with average wages, the payroll tax
would apply to all earned income within about 18 years. He also calls for adding
a separate 6.2 percent tax on investment income for single tax filers with
income exceeding $200,000 (or $250,000 for married couples filing jointly).

The extra revenue would pay for raising benefits by roughly $65 a month, as well
as for a more generous cost-of living adjustment: He would peg benefits to a new
measure of inflation where benefits are estimated to rise about 0.2 percentage
points more each year than they do now.

''Sanders's proposals for Social Security certainly go in the right direction
and are actually quite mainstream since experts are now considering
strengthening and expanding the system,'' said Teresa Ghilarducci, a labor
economist, professor and commissioner for the Bipartisan Policy Center's
retirement security initiative, which is studying the effects of changes to the
program. ''This is certainly not the time to reduce Social Security benefits.''

What would it take to simply preserve the program as is? Raising the payroll tax
by three percentage points, to 15.4 percent from 12.4 percent -- or 1.5
percentage point for workers and employers -- would shore up the system for the
next 75 years, according to Ms. Smith of the Urban Institute. Or immediately
eliminating the cap on earnings -- that is, taxing all income above $118,500, as
the Medicare levy does -- would close about 88 percent of the shortfall.

For retirees like Ms. Moore who have little savings and no pension, Social
Security is the last leg of the retirement stool to lean on. ''If I didn't have
Social Security,'' she said, ''I would be doing a whole lot worse.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/your-money/retirees-futures-hinge-on-candidate
s-plans-for-social-security.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sara Moore, 81, of Chicago, lives on $984 a month in Social
Security payments. After paying bills, she has $50 left. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY
RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) CHARTS: Competing Plans for Social Security:
If no changes are made to Social Security, its trust fund -- which includes
revenue from payroll taxes, taxes on Social Security benefits and interest -- is
expected to run out of money in 2034. At that time, payroll taxes will be able
to pay for about 79 percent of promised benefits. Here is how two proposals --
one offered by a Republican candidate for president, the other by a Democrat --
would affect the program's future. (Sources: The Urban Institute analyzed
Christie's plan
 the Social Security Administration analyzed Sanders's) (B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CANCER (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); SOCIAL
SECURITY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES
(89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); BREAST CANCER (78%);
GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP
KITCHENS (76%); RETIREMENT AGE (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICAL
CANDIDATES (71%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); US
DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); TAX INCREASES (68%); NURSES & NURSING (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (82%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: JEB BUSH (79%); CHRIS CHRISTIE (79%); BERNIE SANDERS (75%); MARCO RUBIO
(50%); MARTIN O'MALLEY (50%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 N.L. Series Score Higher Than A.L. in TV Ratings

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 193 words


The Chicago Cubs' four-game triumph over the St. Louis Cardinals on TBS had the
largest audience of all four league division series, with 5.5 million viewers,
followed by the Mets-Dodgers series with 5.3 million, also on TBS, a good omen
for the Cubs-Mets matchup in the National League Championship Series.

The two American League division series on Fox Sports 1 did not attract
audiences nearly that size, in part because Canadian cities like Toronto are
excluded from Nielsen's calculations. The series between the Blue Jays and the
Texas Rangers averaged only 2.4 million viewers. The Kansas City Royals'
four-game series win over the Houston Astros drew 3.1 million viewers.

It seems a certainty that the Mets-Cubs series will draw a bigger audience than
the Toronto-Kansas City series not only because of their large markets, but for
the pent-up fervor of their fans, especially those who root for the Cubs.

The last time the Cubs were in the N.L.C.S., in 2003 against the Florida
Marlins, the seven-game series on Fox attracted an average of 16.8 million
viewers, the most in the decade. The Marlins' 9-6 win in Game 7 was seen by 26.5
million viewers.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/baseball/both-national-league-series-sc
ore-in-the-ratings.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (91%); BASEBALL (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY
(90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%); NEW YORK METS (93%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (84%);
LOS ANGELES DODGERS (84%); FLORIDA MARLINS (73%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (57%);
TEXAS RANGERS (57%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (57%); HOUSTON ASTROS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%)

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (70%);
KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (69%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); ONTARIO,
CANADA (70%); MISSOURI, USA (69%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama and South Korean Leader Emphasize Unity

BYLINE: By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS; Somini Sengupta contributed reporting from
the United Nations.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 835 words


WASHINGTON --  President Obama on Friday said he stood ready to negotiate with
North Korea on easing sanctions in exchange for limits on its nuclear weapons
program if the North showed a willingness to discuss dismantling its growing
arsenal, citing his recent experience forging a nuclear accord with Iran as a
model for engaging American antagonists.

Mr. Obama said there had been no sign that North Korea would be willing to
engage in such talks, and during a summit meeting with President Park Geun-hye
of South Korea at the White House on Friday, the two leaders issued a sharply
worded statement condemning the ''deplorable'' human rights situation in the
North and promising to address its advancing nuclear and ballistic weapons
proliferation ''with utmost urgency and determination.''

But the president also said he and Ms. Park shared a common determination to
''engage nations with which we have had troubled histories,'' comparing her
attempts to forge better relations and trust between South Korea and the North
Korean government in Pyongyang to his own push for a reconciliation with Cuba
and the Iran nuclear deal.

''At the point where Pyongyang says, 'We're interested in seeing relief from
sanctions and improved relations, and we are prepared to have a serious
conversation about denuclearization,' I think it's fair to say we'll be right
there at the table,'' Mr. Obama said at a news conference with Ms. Park at the
White House, following their Oval Office meeting and working lunch. ''But we
haven't even gotten to that point yet because there's been no indication on the
part of the North Koreans, as there was with the Iranians, that they could
foresee a future in which they did not possess or were not pursuing nuclear
weapons.''

His remarks came the same day American officials said that a ballistic missile
test Iran conducted last weekend ran afoul of United Nations Security Council
resolutions that bar the launching of missiles capable of delivering a nuclear
weapon. Samantha Power, the American ambassador to the United Nations, said the
United States would ''continue to press the Security Council for an appropriate
response to Iran's disregard for its international obligations,'' although Mr.
Obama would offer no detail on Friday about what that response might be.

Mr. Obama said Iran's activities inside of Syria, where their forces are working
along with Russia's to beat back rebels challenging the Syrian government, were
nothing new, arguing that both would ultimately fail to resolve the conflict
there. He said the United States and Russia had reached a limited
''understanding,'' aiming to ensure that their respective military aircraft do
not get in each other's way in the skies over Syria.

''We have arrived at an understanding and some channels for communications''
with Russia, Mr. Obama said. ''Where we will continue to differ is in the basic
set of principles and strategies we are pursuing inside of Syria.''

But Mr. Obama made clear there were few disagreements between him and Ms. Park,
asserting that their alliance had ''no cracks'' and was the strongest it had
ever been. Weeks after the Korean president visited Beijing, where she was
photographed standing shoulder-to-shoulder at a military parade with President
Xi Jinping of China and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, Mr. Obama said he
was not concerned that her warming relationship with China would upset the
rebalance he has been working to strike in Asia.

''There's no contradiction between the Republic of Korea having good relations
with us, being a central part of our alliance and having good relations with
China,'' he said, adding that he had told Ms. Park during their meetings that he
would insist that Korea ''speak out'' when Beijing flouted international rules.

Ms. Park, for her part, said she met with the Chinese and Russian leaders to
secure their cooperation in confronting the nuclear threat from North Korea. If
she was looking to Mr. Obama for the diplomatic space to pursue such alliances,
Ms. Park appeared to come away from Friday's meetings satisfied.

''President Obama affirmed that Korea-U.S. relations and Korea-China relations
could be compatible, and supported Korea's policies toward China,'' Ms. Park
said. ''We believe that this will play a positive role in insuring peace and
stability on the Korean Peninsula and throughout Northeast Asia.''

She also pressed Mr. Obama about the potential for Korea to join the
Trans-Pacific Partnership, the 12-nation trade accord completed last week.

''I believe that we make natural partners in terms of the T.P.P.,'' Ms. Park
said, noting that the United States and Korea have their own, two-way,
free-trade agreement. ''And since T.P.P. negotiations have now been concluded,
we will be engaging in closer cooperation with regard to Korea's possible
participation.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/asia/park-geun-hye-washington-visit.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Park Geun-hye and President Obama, in Washington on
Friday, condemned North Korea for its human rights record. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZACH
GIBSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%);
2015 IRAN NUCLEAR AGREEMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS
(89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS &
MEETINGS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION
(78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); MISSILE RESEARCH &
DEVELOPMENT (61%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (50%)

PERSON: PARK GEUN-HYE (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); SAMANTHA POWER (58%)

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); SYRIA (93%); RUSSIAN
FEDERATION (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Review: Orpheus Chamber Orchestra Dives Into Romanticism

BYLINE: By ZACHARY WOOLFE

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 407 words


The respected, always conductorless Orpheus Chamber Orchestra opened its season
on Thursday evening at Carnegie Hall with three works of German Romanticism, two
of them written in the 1800s -- and the third in 2015.

The degree to which Wolfgang Rihm's new Duo Concerto for violin and cello apes
the style of the past is remarkable: At one point, a soaring horn melody emerges
from the orchestra that wouldn't be out of place in the work of Mendelssohn or
Schumann, who shared the program with Mr. Rihm, who, at 63, is among the most
influential composers of his generation.

Written to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the reopening of the Frauenkirche
in Dresden, destroyed during World War II, the Duo Concerto features barbed
modern harmonies but a stale mood, an uninterrupted 25-minute movement that
grows more and less intense without changing its basic, brownish,
middle-of-the-road color. (Indeed, on Thursday this orchestra rarely revealed a
wealth of colors, though it had solid spirit in Mendelssohn's ''Midsummer
Night's Dream'' Overture and Schumann's Second Symphony.)

A duo concerto -- the New York Philharmonic plays the one Brahms composed for
violin and cello next week -- poses a challenge: triangulating the traditional
soloist-orchestra dynamic. Mr. Rihm never found a satisfying solution to this
problem. The dialogue between the soloists (here, the violinst Mira Wang and the
cellist Jan Vogler, a married couple) is bustling and intimately intertwined,
and almost entirely without emotional texture or productive tension. It is never
clear what relationship Mr. Rihm intends them to have with the full ensemble,
which opens the work in a mystically hushed, waltz-ish mood but then recedes
mostly to low-key noodling. While Mr. Rihm has said that his goal in the work,
guided by Bach, was to interweave polyphonic strands, the result, at least in
this performance, felt muddied rather than transparent.

There is a more mysterious, extreme sound landscape in Mr. Rihm's 1992 violin
concerto ''Gesungene Zeit,'' and more haunting poetry in his 2006 ''Konzert in
einem Satz'' for cello and orchestra. Bringing those two instruments together,
the Duo Concerto ends up equaling less than the sum of its parts.

­The Orpheus Chamber Orchestra plays Handel, Respighi (and, with the violinist
Augustin Hadelich) Stravinsky and Tchaikovsky on Dec. 5 at Carnegie Hall;
212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/arts/music/review-orpheus-chamber-orchestra-di
ves-into-romanticism.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (93%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); STRINGED
INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC
COMPOSITION (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); POETRY (73%); MARRIAGE (69%); WORLD WAR
II (54%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS
THEATRICAL SERVICES (84%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (58%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Blocks Oil Drilling in the Arctic Off Alaska

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 463 words


HOUSTON --  The Obama administration shut the door Friday on drilling in
Alaska's Arctic Ocean over the next two years, canceling auctions for drilling
rights in the Chukchi and Beaufort seas.

The decision by the Interior Department was not surprising because it came less
than a month after Shell Oil canceled the most advanced exploration project in
the region because of disappointing results from a test well and high costs at a
time when oil prices are extremely low.

Still, the announcement is symbolically important as the administration steps
back from its cautious support of drilling in the Arctic.

''It does not make sense to prepare for lease sales in the Arctic,'' said the
Interior secretary, Sally Jewell. She cited the current plunge in oil prices,
the amount of offshore acreage already under lease and Shell's recent decision
to put off further drilling after spending $7 billion on a project that ended up
producing no oil.

The Interior Department also rejected longstanding appeals by Shell and Statoil,
the Norwegian oil giant, to extend existing Arctic leases first obtained during
administration of George W. Bush. Taken together, the decisions are a sharp blow
to the Alaskan economy, which has been declining because of the fall in oil
prices and the state's slumping oil production.

Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, a Republican, called it a ''stunning,
shortsighted move,'' adding that it was ''the latest in a destructive pattern of
hostility'' displayed by the Obama administration toward the energy industry in
the state.

Several other oil companies had already decided to suspend plans to operate in
the Alaskan Arctic, where winter darkness and harsh conditions make drilling
expensive and potentially harmful to the fragile environment.

Environmentalists applauded the move after months of criticizing the
administration for allowing Shell to go forward. Lois Epstein, Arctic program
director for the Wilderness Society, called the decision ''entirely reasonable''
because of Shell's failure.

Seven companies hold drilling rights in the Chukchi Sea, the area with the
highest production potential, but Shell was the only one to begin an active
exploration program. Shell's many accidents and delays served as a cautionary
example to other companies even before the price of oil collapsed by more than
half over the last year.

For years, the Arctic appeared to be the next big frontier for oil companies
with old, mature reserves. But with the advent of hydraulic fracturing of shale
fields, the United States has become glutted with oil.

Offshore Arctic drilling is not only in decline in the United States but also in
Canada and Greenland. Western sanctions over Russia's policies in Ukraine have
slowed exploration in the Russian Arctic.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/energy-environment/us-blocks-alaskan-
arctic-drilling-for-2-years.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION
RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (90%); PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL &
NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY
(78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (78%); ENERGY &
UTILITY TRADE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY REGULATION & POLICY (77%); ENERGY &
UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (69%); ELECTRIC POWER
INDUSTRY (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); SHELL OIL CO (58%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE)
(83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%);
NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM &
NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); SIC2911
PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); SALLY JEWELL (58%); LISA MURKOWSKI (58%); GEORGE W
BUSH (50%)

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); ARCTIC OCEAN (93%)

COUNTRY: ARCTIC (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (84%); UKRAINE
(79%); GREENLAND (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Anti-Graft Drive Hits Nigeria's Luxury Economy

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI; Adam Nossiter contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1530 words


ABUJA, Nigeria --  Private jets that used to crowd the airport here have been
grounded, their wings clipped by the new government's crackdown on corruption.
Rolls-Royces, Range Rovers and Jaguars are gathering dust in the showroom of
this capital's top car dealer. Luxury villas are left unsold, as is the fine
Italian marble used to bedeck the homes of Nigeria's newly rich.

Since assuming power in May on a pledge to root out the graft that has long
permeated Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari has squeezed the flow of public
funds in an effort to clean up Africa's biggest economy.

He has put many public projects on hold to review the contracts, and ordered
many government ministries, departments and agencies to consolidate their bank
accounts for closer monitoring of financial transactions. He has overhauled the
management of the state oil company, while also moving to retrieve stolen money.

In recent days, the campaign escalated with the arrest of two high-profile
figures: Diezani Alison-Madueke, the former oil minister whose five-year tenure
was marred by recurring accusations of widespread theft; and Olajide Omokore,
the chairman of a Nigerian oil company. Both were held as part of inquiries into
corruption and money laundering.

''Those actions will sustain the fear that the culture of impunity is over and
government's will to prosecute is strong,'' said Adams Oshiomhole, a governor
leading a national panel investigating federal graft. ''There's no more free
money flowing because of the attempts by the president to block it, but also the
fear that, 'If I'm caught now, I'll be prosecuted.'''

Nigeria, Africa's most populous nation, is the continent's top oil producer and
one of the biggest producers in the world. Yet corruption has undermined the
nation, helping to keep 68 percent of its population living on less than $1.25 a
day and perpetuating instability, especially the long-running conflict with Boko
Haram.

Whether Mr. Buhari can maintain the pressure against graft, much less transform
a society where corruption thrives at all levels, is far from clear. Over the
years, previous assaults on the problem have fizzled. Mr. Buhari himself first
rose to power in a military coup in the 1980s, waging a self-described ''war
against indiscipline'' during his short reign as military ruler.

But this year, with national frustration boiling over corruption and the
rampages of Boko Haram, the extremist group that has terrorized northern
Nigeria, Mr. Buhari won the presidential election in March as the head of an
opposition alliance that is tasting power for the first time. Now many
politicians and businessmen say he is facing growing pressure to reward the
faithful.

The widening anti-corruption drive has chilled the economy elsewhere in the
country, but nowhere has its impact been felt as keenly as here in the capital.

At Coscharis, the leading dealer of luxury cars here, Happiness Adibe has been
going through her worst year in her nine years as a saleswoman. Last year was
her strongest: a record number of buyers, mostly businessmen and politicians,
spent hundreds of thousands of dollars buying Range Rovers and Jaguars from her.
Seventy percent of her customers paid cash.

''There's no money now, no money,'' Ms. Adibe said. ''Contracts aren't going on
now, everything is standing still. When contracts are going on, people are
getting contracts and doing their, you know, thing.''

At Royal Choice -- a gated community of villas selling for up to $1.8 million
each, some furnished according to a London, New York, Dubai or Shanghai theme --
Joshua Bialonwu has not scored a single sale since the new government took over.
Under the previous administration, customers often bought villas in cash.

On a tour through Royal Choice's eerily deserted streets and inside several
villas, each empty except for a guard and a cellphone charging from a wall, Mr.
Bialonwu explained why sales had dried up.

''With the uncertainties of the government presently, nobody knows how much you
might be asked to return,'' Mr. Bialonwu said. ''So you want to hold on to as
much as you can.''

Negotiations over what to do with ill-gotten gains are taking place quietly.

Nasir El-Rufai, the governor of Kaduna state and a member of the panel
investigating graft, said that associates of one former minister had approached
him with an offer to return $250 million.

''When you say you want to refund, it means you are admitting that you took what
was not yours,'' Mr. Rufai said. ''I said, 'I am a governor, I am not involved
in this. I will pass on your message.' ''

Many officials and businessmen said that graft under former President Goodluck
Jonathan reached levels not seen since military rule ended in 1999. Billions of
dollars are believed to have disappeared from activities related to the oil
industry, the source of 80 percent of all government revenues.

Last year, after the governor of the country's central bank asserted that
billions of dollars in oil revenue owed to the treasury was missing from public
coffers, he was removed from his post.

The missing funds could amount to ''$10.8 billion or $12 billion or $19 billion
or $21 billion -- we do not know at this point,'' the bank governor wrote to the
Nigerian Senate before his dismissal, adding that the problem could ''bring the
entire economy to its knees.''

The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, the state oil company, spent half
of what it collected on its own operations, Mr. Rufai said.

''The corrupt try to take money under the table,'' he said. ''Under Jonathan's
government, it is done so openly, with records. People actually document the
diversion of funds. You just wonder, what is wrong with them.''

The loss of oil revenues has left many of Nigeria's 36 states bankrupt or nearly
bankrupt, unable to pay salaries.

Corruption in other sectors of the government was equally self-destructive, said
Mr. Oshiomhole, the federal graft panel leader.

Money meant for the purchase of arms in the army's fight against Boko Haram
vanished, leaving soldiers without proper equipment. The privatization of the
state power utility was riddled with fraud, enriching individuals but leaving
most Nigerians still without electricity.

An import duty waiver granted to a politically connected Indian rice importer
has dumped one million tons of substandard rice in Nigeria, Mr. Oshiomhole said,
adding that a big farmer in his state, Edo, shelved plans to grow rice as a
result.

Here in Abuja, people with no particular expertise but solid political
connections made fortunes.

''Nothing better explains the amount of theft that went on that somebody without
a business -- he has a small office in the corner of his house with an iPad and
a cellphone -- has jets,'' Mr. Oshiomhole said. ''Everybody was just buying
jets.''

The cash fueled a boom in high-end real estate development in the capital,
Abuja, and in Lagos, the nation's main city. Villas and condominiums built or
purchased to launder money tellingly remain unoccupied, real estate agents and
businessmen say.

At Pated, a store that has sold Italian marble to the Abuja elite for decades,
some politicians and high-ranking civil servants came to make large purchases in
their official vehicles, said John Abimiku, a salesman. Others were more
discreet, or tried to be.

''If you are dealing with a private businessman, you see a lot of prudence in
terms of managing their resources,'' Mr. Abimiku said. ''But if it's a
politician, you tell him a price and he doesn't argue too much. 'O.K., it's all
right, it's all right. Let's have it.'''

But Sadiq Yaqub, Pated's manager, said business now was the ''worst it's ever
been'' in the 12 years he has worked at the store.

To press ahead, the Buhari government will back a new law to prosecute cases of
corruption more quickly, said Itse Sagay, a legal scholar and human rights
activist who now leads another presidential panel against corruption.

No high-profile case of corruption has been prosecuted successfully in the past
decade, reinforcing a culture of impunity, Mr. Sagay said. Wealthy defendants
have been able to exploit legal maneuvers to draw out trials for more than a
decade.

''After 10, 12 years, you begin to have prosecution fatigue,'' he said.
''Witnesses have died, witnesses have disappeared. Those who have started the
prosecution have retired.''

Mr. Sagay said that his panel is also focusing on reforming the handful of
government anti-corruption agencies, which, he said, have been ''contaminated''
by officials working in concert with those they are supposed to be
investigating.

''We now have at the federal government level a government that actually
appreciates the work of the anti-corruption agencies,'' said Sola Akinrinade,
the head of a government anti-corruption academy.

Mr. Akinrinade acknowledged, though, that previous governments had also had
strong starts. After being elected president in 1999, Olusegun Obasanjo
surprised many with an equally aggressive push against corruption. But within a
year or two, it was business as usual in Nigeria.

''Corruption,'' Mr. Akinrinade said, ''will fight back.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/africa/nigeria-president-pledges-to-root
-out-long-entrenched-graft.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Legislators at an anticorruption training session last week in
Abuja, the capital. The new president has pledged to root out graft.
 Sales of million-dollar villas at the Royal Choice estate outside Abuja have
dried up, as the rich avoid conspicuous spending. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GLENNA GORDON
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); BOKO HARAM (89%); MILITARY RULE (78%); ELECTIONS
(78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT
(78%); POLITICS (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS
EXTRACTION (73%); NEW CAR DEALERS (72%); MONEY LAUNDERING (72%); INVESTIGATIONS
(71%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); COUPS
(67%); ARMED FORCES (60%)

PERSON: MUHAMMADU BUHARI (79%)

CITY: ABUJA, NIGERIA (94%)

COUNTRY: NIGERIA (99%); AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Petition Drive in Nebraska Forces Vote on Abolishing Death Penalty

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 899 words


More than four months after the Nebraska Legislature voted to abolish the death
penalty, a petition drive by supporters of capital punishment in the state has
succeeded in upending that vote and suspending the new law, the secretary of
state's office announced Friday.

The petition drive, which collected more than 143,000 verified signatures from
across the state, will force a statewide referendum in November 2016, when
Nebraska voters will decide whether the state should have a death penalty.

The announcement was a clear victory for Gov. Pete Ricketts, a vigorous
supporter of capital punishment and a major financial contributor to the
petition effort. It was a blow to the coalition of legislators who argued in
emotional hearings at the state Capitol in May that the death penalty system in
Nebraska was inefficient, expensive and immoral.

But it also opened up new uncertainties surrounding the death penalty in
Nebraska: With the repeal law suspended, would prosecutors once again seek the
penalty when trying murder cases? Could the governor's so far fruitless efforts
to obtain lethal injection drugs succeed? And could an execution take place in
the more than yearlong interim before the statewide referendum on the issue next
November, as Nebraskans continue to be roiled by a debate over the death
penalty?

''The thing is a total mess,'' said Eric Berger, a law professor at the
University of Nebraska, Lincoln, who has written extensively on capital
punishment. ''It's uncharted territory for everybody.''

Mr. Berger said that even the current status of the 10 men on death row --
including whether they are legally on death row at all -- could be seen as
uncertain. ''My guess is that this would ultimately be a losing argument,'' he
said, ''but there's at least a nonfrivolous argument that they could not be
executed because their death sentences had been removed.''

Complicating matters further is a significant legal challenge that could
invalidate the petition drive. In September, opponents of the death penalty
filed a lawsuit against John Gale, the Nebraska secretary of state, arguing that
Governor Ricketts should have been listed as a sponsor of the petition effort,
as required by Nebraska law, given that he was a major financial contributor to
the signature drive. The lawsuit says Governor Ricketts ''personally and/or
through his close advisers and agents managed, organized and controlled the
referendum campaign.''

Governor Ricketts personally donated $200,000 to Nebraskans for the Death
Penalty, the group that organized the petition drive.

A second lawsuit filed in September said the language on the petition drive was
''unlawfully misleading.'' The lawsuit, which names Mr. Gale and Doug Peterson,
the attorney general, says that the question posed to voters through the
petition drive inaccurately suggests that the death penalty could be replaced
with a sentence less than life imprisonment.

Laura Strimple, a spokeswoman for the secretary of state, declined to comment on
the continuing litigation.

Chris Peterson, a spokesman for Nebraskans for the Death Penalty, said in an
email that over the next several months, the group planned to ''defend the
successful petition drive from frivolous litigation by our desperate opponents,
and work to ensure that Nebraska voters have their voice heard on this important
criminal justice issue.''

The death penalty has not been used in Nebraska since 1997, partly a reflection
of Nebraskans' uncertainty about the measure, said Robert Dunham, the executive
director of the Death Penalty Information Center in Washington.

''There has been for 20 years a great deal of ambivalence about the death
penalty in Nebraska,'' Mr. Dunham said. ''There has been substantial support for
abolition, and there have been governors who have been in support of retaining
it.''

Until Mr. Ricketts became governor, he said, previous governors ''have expressed
support for the death penalty, but they have not pushed to execute.''

In recent years, state officials have found it impossible to obtain sodium
thiopental, a barbiturate used to administer lethal injections. In 2011, the
sole manufacturer of sodium thiopental in the United States ceased making the
drug.

Mr. Ricketts's administration recently tried to buy $50,000 worth of sodium
thiopental from a distributor in India, but the shipment was returned to the
sender. The Food and Drug Administration warned that importing the drug was
illegal.

Nebraska allows for a lengthy appeals process, making it possible for inmates to
remain on death row for decades. One inmate, Carey Dean Moore, arrived on death
row in 1980 after being convicted of killing two cabdrivers in Omaha.

Opponents of the death penalty vowed to fight until the referendum. Matt Maly,
coordinator for Nebraska Conservatives Concerned About the Death Penalty, said
the group planned to hold events in churches and schools to tell voters about
''the facts of the broken death penalty system.''

But he said Mr. Ricketts's continued inability to obtain the necessary drugs for
an execution kept the situation relatively unchanged.

''There certainly is a little bit of ambiguity right now,'' he said. ''But in
reality, it's not affecting very much at all. We haven't executed anyone in 20
years and don't have the drugs for it. Nobody's going to be executed in Nebraska
anytime soon.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/us/politics/nebraska-to-vote-on-abolishing-dea
th-penalty-after-petition-drive-succeeds.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (95%); PETITIONS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%);
LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%);
REFERENDUMS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%);
MURDER (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%);
ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (54%)

PERSON: PETE RICKETTS (79%)

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (99%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Afghans Expand Militias Accused of Rights Abuses

BYLINE: By MUJIB MASHAL; Jawad Sukhanyar contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1642 words


KABUL, Afghanistan --  With the Afghan security forces gravely challenged by
Taliban offensives, the government is moving to rapidly expand the troubled
Afghan Local Police program by thousands of members, Afghan and Western
officials say.

The move to expand the police militias, prompted by the disastrous loss of the
northern city of Kunduz to the Taliban almost three weeks ago, is being
described by officials speaking privately as an attempt to head off panic in
Afghan cities threatened by the insurgents.

But the expansion also amounts to an open admission that the United States' main
legacy in Afghanistan -- the creation of nationalized police and army forces
numbering more than 350,000 members -- is failing under pressure even before any
final American military withdrawal. On Thursday, President Obama called off that
pullout, originally due at year's end, leaving 9,800 American troops in the
country for at least another year.

Further, the plan would involve a sudden, and potentially poorly vetted,
expansion of the Afghan Local Police, an American-created force that in many
areas of the country has become synonymous with human rights abuses even when
directly supervised by the American Special Forces. Some of the NATO countries
involved in Afghanistan have already expressed concerns about the move.

Until recently, requests for funding an expansion of that police force, a
collection of local militias with around 30,000 total members, were repeatedly
turned down by the United States military. While the forces have performed well
in some parts of the country, in other parts, like Kunduz, they are seen as a
source of chaos and banditry rather than security.

''The Taliban have all of a sudden felt a rush after Kunduz -- they are
abandoning plans for districts and making runs on cities,'' said a senior Afghan
official, who like others interviewed about security spoke on the condition of
anonymity to avoid political risk.

The militia expansion plan is a reversal for President Ashraf Ghani, who had
long talked about the importance of solidifying ''the state monopoly over the
use of force'' in a country still deeply scarred by its civil war. Militia
forces wielded by American-backed warlords were responsible for some of the
worst atrocities in that decade-long conflict.

Afghan officials who described the new plan, however, bluntly called it a matter
of survival: Given a choice between ceding territory to the Taliban and
reinforcing areas with semiformal militias deemed abusive and predatory, the
government is opting for the latter.

Officials said the plan called for the immediate recruitment of an additional
15,000 armed militiamen under the Afghan Local Police program, and according to
some accounts that may rise to as many as 30,000. The measure is supposed to
focus on beefing up defenses at the district level, potentially freeing up the
badly overstretched army and the national police to concentrate their forces for
more strategic strikes.

While the Americans had long told the Afghan government to respect the 30,000
cap for the force, at least two Afghan officials said that discussions were
underway and that the American military had shown interest in finding a way to
fund the program's expansion, which is believed to cost more than the force's
current $120 million annual budget. Mr. Ghani has told his officials he will
seek other sources if the American funding does not materialize.

Reached for comment, a United States military official said that Afghan police
officials had not formally approached the American military command to discuss
expanding the Afghan Local Police forces, which the official described as
''important.''

But European members of the NATO coalition have expressed concern about the
expansion, officials said. And Franz-Michael Mellbin, the European Union's
special representative to Afghanistan, said that even successful reform of the
Afghan Local Police, or A.L.P., would not be enough to justify its expansion.

''There is nobody on the European side who want to invest in anything that even
remotely resembles the A.L.P.,'' Mr. Mellbin said in an interview. ''The fear is
still there that the A.L.P. becomes the arms of local strongmen. We do not think
the A.L.P. has worked -- especially in the north, where they have become the
extension of local interest groups.''

Afghan officials describe the move as one born of necessity. Mohammed Hanif
Atmar, Mr. Ghani's national security adviser, said the government was faced with
a big influx of Taliban from Pakistan, as well as of other foreign militants,
just as the effects of the reduction in NATO forces and their close air support
were taking a toll.

The insurgency has also changed tactics this fighting season, Mr. Atmar said,
noting that the Taliban ''no longer fight in small groups, they now fight in
large formations,'' with intentions of overrunning and holding major territory.
In the meantime, the Afghan security forces have faced a problem that Mr. Atmar
called ''chronic'': At the local level, a significant number of the forces are
scattered, deployed at the service of local strongmen rather than the posts they
are assigned to.

For example, a recent government assessment of the A.L.P. force, which is
nominally under the Interior Ministry's authority, found that more than 2,000
officers, about 7 percent of the entire force, was at the direct service of
strongmen, according to security officials briefed on the assessment. That is
particularly the case in northern areas like Kunduz, where they are widely seen
as unaccountable armed groups that extort the local population and turn their
guns against one another as much as on the Taliban.

Beyond that, the real numbers of police and military members stationed in some
areas are often much lower than officially reported. Naqibullah Fayeq, a member
of Parliament from Faryab Province, a vital northwestern region that has come
under major Taliban assault recently, said that as much as a third of the
security strength in the province is made up of the ''ghost police'' -- empty
spots officially reported as drawing a salary.

The widespread nature of the problem has prompted Mr. Ghani to order an
immediate ''personnel asset inventory,'' official said.

Mr. Atmar said the increase in recruitment of the A.L.P. was to ''front-load''
for other national forces, with the goal of eventually using the new recruits to
fill the vacancies that exist in the army and the police.

The Afghan Local Police were established by American commanders as a low-cost
auxiliary force trained by the United States Special Forces. But even when units
have been under direct American supervision, some have committed abuses. Several
assessments, the most comprehensive of them by the International Crisis Group,
have concluded that the A.L.P. ''has not improved security in many places and
even exacerbated the conflict in many districts.''

The current expansion is happening without the mentorship of American forces,
and under difficult circumstances. Thousands of men who had once been disarmed
by government campaigns costing hundreds of millions of dollars are now being
rearmed.

The design is also being rolled out at a time when factional strongmen and
elements of the former government in Kabul have mounted pressure on Mr. Ghani's
government, accusing him of exclusionary politics. In the wake of the Kunduz
disaster, the strongmen, many of whom have pasts as northern warlords, have been
pressing the government to use militias loyal to them in the fight against the
Taliban. Some officials fear the militia expansion amounts to a political payoff
to these strongmen, who have often used A.L.P. units for their personal
business.

The Kabul government's political struggles have had a direct affect on the
morale of the security forces, some officials say. Many of the army and police
commanders who were in Kunduz maintain factional loyalties that at times have
been at odds with the central government. In the confusion of the Taliban
assault, some simply chose not to fight when the moment arrived, some officials
claimed.

''The security challenges cannot be seen in isolation,'' said Mr. Mellbin, the
European Union representative. ''The political space needs to be worked more
effectively. If the elite had come together on Kunduz, the situation could have
been managed before it became a national security threat.''

Mr. Atmar conceded that amid the intense fighting this year, extensive
background checks and training might not be immediately realistic for the
expanded forces, but he said better vetting could take hold later. He insisted,
however, that the government had made it clear that any new force in the
districts would have to serve under the local police chief, and the larger chain
of command.

''Without the state's permission, people used their guns against the enemy,''
Mr. Atmar said. ''We did not authorize that, but as a responsible government we
know they have done the right thing to protect themselves because we were not
enough in numbers. Now we go there and say, 'Look, you did the right thing, but
if you continue this' -- and this will continue -- 'you have to now be properly
integrated into our forces.' ''

As a sign of how difficult it is in practice to bring order to the militias,
Gen. Baba Jan, who was the police chief of Badakhshan Province, recently posted
his resignation. His province has been facing a major Taliban offensive, and in
response the local strongmen had armed their militias, often in coordination
with the government. But General Jan said he could not control the illegal armed
men anymore, and he included the Afghan Local Police in that category.

''They are tied to powerful individuals,'' the general said, ''and one cannot
expect to have authority and order over them.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/asia/afghan-local-police-taliban.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%);
ARMIES (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT
(78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: ASHRAF GHANI AHMADZAI (74%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

CITY: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%)

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

History and Intrigue Imbue the Mets-Cubs Series With Extra Flavor

BYLINE: By SETH BERKMAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 922 words


Early Friday afternoon, the Citi Field grounds crew needed only a minimal effort
to prepare for the Mets' National League Championship Series with the Chicago
Cubs that is set to begin Saturday night. On the first- and third-base lines,
where it has read ''2015 NLDS'' for the last week, the crew simply painted a
''C'' in place of the ''D'' and was mostly finished.

Strategically, the matchup with the Cubs is also not much different from the
Mets' last series versus Los Angeles. The Mets will match some of their best
young pitchers against a dominant right-hander, Jake Arrieta, and a lefty ace,
Jon Lester, and hope that they can prevail, just as they did against the
Dodgers' righty-lefty combination of Zack Greinke and Clayton Kershaw.

But in other ways, of course, the Cubs-Mets showdown is far different. The Cubs
and Mets are linked by history -- most notably, the 1969 pennant race -- but
until now have never met each other in the postseason, whereas the Mets and
Dodgers had. And while the Dodgers have not won a World Series in 27 years and
the Mets in 29, it has been a logic-defying 107 years since the Cubs were
champions, which adds an extra layer of intrigue and urgency to this series.

There's more, too. Cubs Manager Joe Maddon received his big break in baseball
thanks to Mets Manager Terry Collins. And while it's Cubs versus Mets there is a
backdrop of Red Sox versus Yankees, with Cubs General Manager Theo Epstein now
following a similar blueprint to his curse-busting work in Boston, and with
Manny Ramirez, of all people, now working with the Cubs' young hitters less than
a decade after smashing balls over the Green Monster.

Even Matt Harvey's presence in the N.L.C.S. is likely to be more front and
center than it was in the last round. Against the Dodgers, he pitched a
workmanlike five innings and notched a victory in Game 3. Against the Cubs, he
is set to start Game 1 and, amid the never-ending debate about his innings
limit, is penciled in for another start, assuming neither team sweeps.

In a late-afternoon news conference at Citi Field on Friday, Harvey again
addressed his innings issue, saying, ''I think everybody has kind of had enough
talk and discussion about that whole ordeal.''

That ordeal began in early September after his agent, Scott Boras, publicly
challenged the Mets' use of Harvey in his first season back from Tommy John
surgery, contending that 180 innings should be Harvey's limit for the year but
that the team seemed ready to go a good deal beyond that number.

When Harvey initially indicated that he did not disagree with Boras, he was
berated by fans and commentators for seemingly putting himself before the team.
Since then, there have been skipped starts for Harvey, mini-starts, longer
outings and now, deep in October, an apparent consensus that -- limits or no
limits -- he will keep pitching a while longer this postseason.

Or as Harvey said on Friday in reference to his initial concerns in September
about how many innings he had already pitched: ''I'll be the last person to ever
bring that one up again.''

After the Mets won Game 5 against the Dodgers Thursday night, Collins announced
Harvey as his N.L.C.S. Game 1 starter. For decades, baseball strategy has
dictated that Game 1 pitchers in a seven-game series are also in line to start
Game 5 -- and in rare cases, Game 4, although it is all but assured the Mets
would not start Harvey three times in a series this year.

''Going into a seven-game series and having the opportunity to line up for two
games, I couldn't be happier and more ready for it,'' Harvey said.

Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson was a little more cautious, saying Friday
that how much Harvey pitches would depend on how he feels after Saturday.
Collins, however, was unambiguous. When asked if he planned on pitching Harvey
beyond Game 1, Collins replied, ''Absolutely.''

And Boras? In a telephone interview, he said he expected Harvey to take his
normal turns through the rotation as long as the Mets are alive in the
postseason, a significant reversal from his stance last month, perhaps in
deference to Harvey's wishes.

''I expect Matt to pitch as the Mets determine if and when he should pitch,''
Boras said.

Meanwhile, as Cubs hitters took their swings on Friday, Ramirez, his facial hair
now peppered with gray specks, kept an eye on the proceedings from left field
while dressed in a hoodie sweatshirt.

Last February, the Cubs hired Ramirez as a hitting consultant. At the time,
Epstein said Ramirez would consult the Cubs at least once a month, but his
presence has been far more frequent lately. Young hitters like Kyle Schwarber
and Jorge Soler have praised Ramirez for his guidance.

Ramirez did not appear to be talking on Friday, but both managers, who are
effusive by baseball standards, certainly were.

The two men go back some. Their first in-depth conversation came at a hotel in
Phoenix, when Collins decided to bring on Maddon as his bench coach when he
managed the Anaheim Angels in the late 1990s. When Collins resigned in 1999,
Maddon replaced him as interim manager.

''We had a really good relationship on the bench, really good,'' Maddon said.

Collins also credited Maddon for introducing him to using computers for
strategizing. Maddon, however, said he would use the ''eyeball test'' for
scouting Harvey in Game 1, perhaps to put to use in a return matchup.

As for how Harvey might do in Game 1, Collins vouched that ''he's ready for
it.''

He added, ''I think he'll pitch well.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/baseball/history-and-intrigue-imbue-the
-mets-cubs-series-with-extra-flavor.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Matt Harvey will start Game 1 of the N.L.C.S. against the
Chicago Cubs. Mets Manager Terry Collins said he ''absolutely'' would use Harvey
beyond the first game. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE STOBE/GETTY IMAGES)
Cubs Manager Joe Maddon, left, was the bench coach for the Anaheim Angels when
Collins, right, managed them in the 1990s. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN SOLOMON FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES
 MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS
(89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (72%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%); NEW YORK METS (94%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS
(91%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (59%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (68%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Strains of Migrant Crisis Increase the Political Pressure on Germany's Leader

BYLINE: By ALISON SMALE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1133 words


BERLIN --  The past six weeks of refugee crisis have shown Chancellor Angela
Merkel unwavering in her resolve to have Germany accommodate hundreds of
thousands of newcomers from the Middle East and Africa. But for how long?

The task is not getting easier. Inside Germany, politicians and the general
public worry that the good will could snap under the strain of housing, feeding,
supporting and processing as many as a million new arrivals this year.

In Europe, and beyond, Ms. Merkel so far lacks strong allies to achieve her goal
of merely slowing the refugee flow.

Indeed, Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary highlighted Ms. Merkel's
isolation from Central and Eastern European leaders on Friday by closing his
country's border with Croatia, and thus threatening once more to disrupt the
migrant trail that Germany wishes to keep orderly, if not controlled.

Mr. Orban's move is just the latest in a series of challenges that Ms. Merkel
has faced in recent weeks. Though often accused of waiting too long to sniff the
political winds and leading from behind, she has been steadfast on all but a
handful of issues during her 10 years in office -- including during the Greek
financial crisis this year, when Germany led the way in imposing controls on
Greece's spending, in return for a third bailout.

The migrant crisis, with its domestic and external pressures, may prove to be
another matter. But by giving ground on some political points, she has so far
tamped down opposition in her own conservative camp.

In Berlin, the upper house of Parliament -- which includes the governors of
Germany's 16 states, who have been on the front lines in dealing with the
migrant influx -- on Friday followed the lower house and passed a new package of
measures tightening Germany's generous asylum conditions. The lawmakers cut cash
and other benefits to new arrivals, and promised a speedier process to satisfy
those worried that Germany's generosity would be its downfall.

But all complained that they are reaching their limits.

''We have this damned pressure,'' said Malu Dreyer, the Social Democrat governor
of Rhineland-Palatinate, and help in processing people must come fast. ''We have
the clear expectation that in terms of staffing, things will go very, very
quickly.''

Ms. Merkel sent her interior minister, Thomas de Maizière, who has been accused
of waking up too late to the refugee crisis, to reassure state and local leaders
that help -- and federal funds -- were at hand.

But some areas are moving on their own. Two city-states, Hamburg and Bremen,
have already passed laws giving them the right to commandeer empty properties to
try to give refugees roofs over their heads -- and not tents -- as winter
approaches.

Meanwhile, attacks continue on planned or existing refugee shelters -- 375 this
year, including 72 arson attacks and a new suspected arson in the town of
Flensburg overnight, according to the police and a tally kept by two
nongovernment groups, the Amadeu Antonio Foundation and Pro Asyl.

Pro- and anti-immigrant groups are girding for a Monday rally in Dresden by the
anti-immigrant group Pegida, a year since it started demonstrations that peaked
at 25,000 people last winter.

In national politics, the fiercest opposition to Ms. Merkel's decision on Sept.
4 -- with Austria -- to throw open the borders to tens of thousands of refugees
then trapped in Hungary comes from her own conservative camp. Bavaria's Horst
Seehofer, head of the sister party to Ms. Merkel's Christian Democrats, again
this week criticized her government for what he sees as a lack of deeds to back
up nice words welcoming in the 300,000 refugees that he says have arrived in the
last month.

Scores more of mostly local conservative politicians have signed an open letter
to Ms. Merkel, which pleads with her ''to take speedy measures which would
reduce the current influx of refugees swiftly and effectively.'' A banner held
high as the chancellor addressed a party meeting near Leipzig this week
demanded, ''Dethrone Merkel.''

With no elections in Germany until next spring, Ms. Merkel, 61, is, for now, in
little danger. She has been in office almost exactly 10 years. Opinion polls now
have her party at 38 or 39 percent, compared with 41.5 percent of the vote in
the last national elections in 2013, and her personal rating has slipped.

The most recent Politbarometer national survey by the public broadcaster ZDF on
Oct. 9 showed support slipping slightly for Ms. Merkel's handling of the refugee
crisis. Results showed 46 percent saying she was doing a good job, and 48
percent saying she was not.

Yet she has no visible rival in her conservative bloc, and the Social Democrats
-- her center-left partners in the ''grand coalition'' government -- are at or
below 25 percent in national polls. The first voter test comes next March, with
three state elections. The federal government itself is not up for elections
until 2017.

Although she is known for waiting out many a conflict before intervening, sudden
moves are not unknown for Ms. Merkel. She emerged as a conservative leader after
demanding the demise of her biggest patron, former Chancellor Helmut Kohl. In
2005, she ditched tax overhauls that almost cost her the election; in 2011,
after the Fukushima meltdown, she decided to abandon nuclear power.

As for her position on migrants, pressure is intense. Yet another European Union
summit  meeting -- the fourth on migration -- ended in the early hours of Friday
with little concrete agreement on how to make Europe's borders secure once more.
A visibly weary Ms. Merkel acknowledged, ''We need additional, and much more,
discussion until all understand.''

Ms. Merkel faces her next challenge, or ''damned duty,'' as she called it last
week, on Sunday: persuading Turkey to prevent the Syrians crossing by sea to
Greece and then traveling on to Central Europe.

In her talks with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Istanbul, Ms. Merkel must
delicately balance Europe's need for Turkey's cooperation with Ankara's demands
for money and looser European visa conditions. She must also maintain Europe's
strong concerns about the rights of Turkey's Kurdish minority and escalating
military clashes between Kurds and Turkey's army.

Karen Donfried, formerly in the Obama White House and now president of the
German Marshall Fund, said, ''This is the most significant challenge Germany has
faced in recent years.''

''It's very impressive, how the Germans have been managing this to date,'' Ms.
Donfried said on a visit to Berlin. How Ms. Merkel finesses coming challenges,
like Turkey, ''we'll have to see.''

Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: European Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/europe/pressure-grows-on-merkel-as-strai
n-from-refugees-increases.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, speaking Friday after a
European Union summit meeting in Brussels, said, ''We need additional, and much
more, discussion until all understand.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCOIS LENOIR/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (90%); EUROPEAN MIGRANT CRISIS (90%); GERMAN CHANCELLORS
(90%); BAILOUTS (78%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (78%); POLITICS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS
(77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EURO CRISIS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES
(75%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%);
GOVERNORS (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (93%); VIKTOR ORBAN (79%)

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); BREMEN, GERMANY (79%);
BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (77%)

STATE: RHEINLAND-PFALZ, GERMANY (79%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CROATIA (79%); BELGIUM
(79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); GREECE (79%); EASTERN
EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

South Korean President Says She's Open to Talks With Japanese Leader

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN; Jonathan Soble contributed reporting from Tokyo.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 590 words


SEOUL, South Korea -- President Park Geun-hye of South Korea said Thursday that
she was willing to meet one-on-one next month with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of
Japan, a development that would be welcomed by American officials, who have
repeatedly urged Washington's two key East Asian allies to mend their strained
relationship.

Speaking in Washington, where she is scheduled to meet on Friday with President
Obama, Ms. Park said that a November meeting in Seoul between herself, Mr. Abe
and Premier Li Keqiang of China would provide a chance for her to meet alone
with the Japanese leader for the first time.

''I think I can take that opportunity to hold a bilateral summit with Prime
Minister Abe,'' Ms. Park said while addressing the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a Washington research institute.

Her comment was the clearest indication yet that the two countries were
preparing for such a meeting, after months of negotiations. Mr. Abe on Friday
reiterated his desire for bilateral meetings with both the Chinese and South
Korean leaders, said Takeo Kawamura, a former chief cabinet secretary who is
serving as an envoy for Mr. Abe on the issue.

''I'm going to South Korea, and we're going to do Japan-China and Japan-South
Korea,'' Mr. Abe said Friday, according to Mr. Kawamura, who spoke to reporters
after meeting with the prime minister.

Ties between South Korea and Japan, its former colonizer, have been strained for
years, largely over issues rooted in their painful history. The United States is
eager for them to improve the relationship, especially given the anxiety in the
region over China's growing assertiveness and North Korea's nuclear arms
program.

Mr. Abe had previously expressed interest in meeting with Ms. Park, but until
Thursday she had seemed cool to the idea. She has met several times with
President Xi Jinping of China, however, raising concern in Washington that South
Korea might be drawing closer to Beijing.

South Korea has said that for a meeting with Mr. Abe to be possible, Japan must
take steps toward what Seoul regards as proper atonement for its history during
World War II and the preceding decades -- particularly the recruitment of Korean
and other women to work in military-run brothels, which many historians say
involved coercion. Seoul has complained that under Mr. Abe, Japan has played
down state responsibility for the abuses suffered by those women, often referred
to euphemistically as comfort women.

Ms. Park reiterated that condition on Thursday, saying that for a meeting with
Mr. Abe to be ''meaningful,'' Japan should ''help ease the agony'' of those
women, 47 of whom she said were still alive in South Korea.

Japan has argued that the issue was settled half a century ago in a treaty that
normalized relations with South Korea. Many Japanese, especially nationalist
politicians and activists, say South Korea is being unreasonable in repeatedly
demanding apologies that they feel Japan has already offered for its World War
II deeds.

No date has been announced for the meeting between Ms. Park, Mr. Abe and Mr. Li,
but Ms. Park said Thursday that it would be held in Seoul in early November.
Japan, South Korea and China began holding annual, trilateral meetings among
high-ranking officials in 2008, but they were suspended after the 2012 meeting
amid flaring regional tensions, notably over a dispute between Japan and China
over islands in the East China Sea. The three countries agreed earlier this year
to resume the meetings by the end of 2015.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/asia/south-korea-japan-summit-park-geun-
hye-shinzo-abe.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE &
GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (76%); INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS (75%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (75%); HISTORY (73%); HUMANITIES &
SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%)

PERSON: PARK GEUN-HYE (92%); SHINZO ABE (92%); XI JINPING (79%); LI KEQIANG
(79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%)

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA
(94%); ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
(79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iraq Retakes Key Refinery in Rare Sign of Progress

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON; Falih Hassan and Ahmed Salah contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 751 words


BAGHDAD --  Iraqi forces and the Shiite militias fighting alongside them
announced Friday that they had retaken the oil refinery at Baiji from Islamic
State militants, in some of the first significant progress against the extremist
group after months of stalled efforts.

''Baiji refinery has been completely liberated from Daesh,'' a spokesman for
Iraq's counterterrorism service said, using the Arabic acronym for the Islamic
State, which is also known as ISIS or ISIL. ''Removing the I.E.D.s will take
some time, but we can say that we liberated the whole of the refinery,'' he
added, referring to improvised bombs.

The Baiji refinery has been damaged so severely that it could take years to get
it functioning again. But Iraqi officials insist that its recapture is a
strategically important step, and a vital lift to morale, in the broader
campaign against the Islamic State, which controls much of northern and western
Iraq.

Baiji and the nearby town of Siniya, which Iraqi forces said they had also
taken, are on a major north-south route to Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city,
which was seized by the Islamic State in June 2014.

''This battle is crucial,'' Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said Monday during a
visit to Salahuddin, the province north of Baghdad that includes Baiji.

Islamic State militants and Iraqi forces have been fighting for more than a year
over Baiji, which has changed hands repeatedly. The difficulties the Iraqis have
had in holding onto the refinery point to the more formidable challenge they
would confront in any operation to retake Mosul or other Islamic State
strongholds.

The Iraqis appeared to have had more going for them this time. The push to
retake Baiji came as Iraqi forces were mounting a parallel offensive to retake
Ramadi, the capital of Anbar Province in western Iraq.

The Iraqi military said it had encircled Ramadi, which United States military
officials say is defended by an estimated 600 to 1,000 Islamic State fighters.
Even though Iraqi troops have yet to enter the city, the simultaneous operations
are pressuring the Islamic State's forces.

The Shiite militias -- formally known as the Popular Mobilization Forces -- have
not been given a role in the Ramadi operation for fear that their presence might
antagonize the mostly Sunni population there. But the militias, some of which
are backed and trained by Iran, played a major role in the Baiji operation.

That offensive is being overseen by Maj. Gen. Juma al-Jubouri, who runs the
military command center in Salahuddin. The American-led coalition, which has
supported the offensive with airstrikes, said Iraq's counterterrorism service
and federal police had led the attack on Baiji.

A spokesman for Shiite militias said that several thousand Shiite militiamen
were fighting in and near Baiji, which is more than the estimated number of
Iraqi soldiers also fighting there. According to figures provided by Iraqi
police spokesmen, 1,700 Iraqi national policemen and 1,200 local policemen were
involved in the operation.

Shiite militia leaders have advertised their presence on the battlefield. Qais
al-Khazali, the head of the Asaib Ahl al-Haq, a militia long supported by Iran,
was filmed inside the captured refinery. Hadi al-Ameri, the leader of the Badr
Organization, another Iranian-backed group, also played a visible role in the
operation.

In the southern city of Karbala, a representative of Grand Ayatollah Ali
al-Sistani, the spiritual leader of Iraq's Shiites, said during his Friday
Prayer sermon that the fight against the Islamic State was among ''the holiest
battles in our contemporary history.''

The representative, Ahmed al-Safi, urged Iraqi forces to respect human rights
and not to steal from residents, a noteworthy injunction after accusations of
serious abuses by some militias.

''Make sure to be just and righteous in all of your steps,'' he said. ''Protect
the elderly, the women, children and any innocent person.''

The next step after Baiji, Iraqi officials said, will include operations to take
the nearby towns of Hawija and Shirgat, where tough fighting is expected. The
Iraqi military said its Sukhoi SU-25 attack jets had carried out airstrikes in
Shirgat and on an Islamic State convoy on the road from Mosul.

The American-led coalition said that it had carried out numerous airstrikes at
Baiji to weaken the militants as the Iraqi forces moved in. A coalition
spokesman said Thursday that there had been 43 airstrikes in Baiji over the past
30 days.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/middleeast/iraqi-forces-and-shiite-milit
ias-retake-oil-refinery-from-isis.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Iraqi security forces stood guard on Friday at the Baiji
refinery north of Baghdad. The refinery, which changed hands several times
during months of fighting, is so badly damaged that it could take years to get
it functioning again. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THAIER AL-SUDANI/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (92%); PETROLEUM
REFINERIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORISM (89%);
PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); WAR &
CONFLICT (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES
(73%); PRIME MINISTERS (51%)

PERSON: HAIDER AL-ABADI (79%)

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%)

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rumors About Cattle Stir Deadly Violence in India

BYLINE: By HARI KUMAR and DAVID BARSTOW

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 541 words


NEW DELHI --  Cattle have emerged as a trigger for sectarian tensions in India,
with eruptions of deadly violence set off by even rumors of harm to cows, which
are regarded as sacred by the country's Hindu majority.

Police officials said on Friday that one Muslim man had died and four others
were injured in the latest episode, in the north Indian state of Himachal
Pradesh. A group of Hindu activists who suspected the five men of smuggling
cattle for slaughter attacked the men, beating them early on Wednesday morning,
the police said. One later died as a result of his injuries.

The men were in a truck carrying 15 bulls and cows when the activists attacked
them, and the one who died had been charged with cattle smuggling in another
state, the police said. But some of the recent attacks have apparently had
little or no basis.

A Muslim family was attacked three weeks ago in a village east of Delhi by a
Hindu mob that suspected the family of eating beef, an accusation the family
denied. The father, Mohammed Ikhlaq, 50, was killed, and his son was seriously
injured.

Two weeks later, a mob in the Mainpuri district of Uttar Pradesh clashed with
the police after a rumor spread that a cow had been slaughtered. The rumor was
false; the cow was being skinned after it had died from natural causes.

Across much of India, it is illegal to slaughter cows, and an increasing number
of states are also imposing bans on eating beef, often under pressure from
right-wing Hindu groups. The chief minister of Haryana State, a member of Prime
Minister Narendra Modi's Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, stirred
controversy on Thursday when he told The Indian Express that ''Muslims can
continue to live in this country, but they will have to give up eating beef.''
He later retracted the remark.

In the episode Wednesday, the police received a tip about a truck carrying
cattle in the village of Sarahan and set up a barricade to intercept it. But the
truck broke down about a mile before reaching the barricade, the police said,
and it was then that the activists who were following the truck attacked the
five men.

Devender Singh Yadav, a police inspector in Saharanpur, said that the man who
died of his injuries was ''a hardened criminal known for cattle smuggling and
cow slaughter.'' The four who survived have been arrested and charged with
cattle theft and cruelty to animals.

No one has been arrested for attacking the men.

The tip to the police came from a Hindu activist, Arun Bhandari. He is the local
leader of Bajrang Dal, a hard-line Hindu youth organization that, among other
things, presses government officials to enforce laws protecting cows.

Mr. Bhandari could not be reached for comment. His father, Mohan Bhandari, said
in an interview that his son had reported cow smugglers to the local authorities
at least 10 times in the past year, a claim the police dispute.

Soumya Sambasivan, the district police chief, said in an interview that some
local men use their supposed affiliation with the Bajrang Dal as a cover to
extort money from cow smugglers. ''Some people try to take political mileage by
linking themselves to such organization,'' Ms. Sambasivan said. ''Basically,
they are a group of extortionists.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/asia/cattle-become-a-trigger-for-sectari
an-violence-in-india.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES
(90%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); MAMMALS (89%);
ARRESTS (89%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (78%); RELIGION (78%); BEEF (78%); POLICE
FORCES (77%); DEATHS (77%); LARCENY & THEFT (74%); ANIMAL WELFARE (71%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HEADS OF STATE &
GOVERNMENT (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%)

PERSON: NARENDRA MODI (79%)

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%); DELHI, INDIA (59%)

STATE: NORTH INDIA (92%); HIMACHAL PRADESH, INDIA (90%); HARYANA, INDIA (79%);
UTTAR PRADESH, INDIA (79%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Homeland' Overlooks the Writing on the Wall

BYLINE: By JAMES PONIEWOZIK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 636 words


In a 2004 episode of ''Arrested Development'' -- a dysfunctional family sitcom
and one of TV's best satirical responses to the war in Iraq -- Gob Bluth (Will
Arnett) tells his brother Michael (Jason Bateman) that he's found a contract
their real-estate developer father signed to build houses for Saddam Hussein.
''I've got the thingy!'' he says, excitedly. ''Half in English, half in
squibbly!''

I thought about this scene after hearing the news that a group of graffiti
artists had punked the makers of Showtime's ''Homeland,'' who had hired them to
paint a Berlin set meant to depict a camp of Syrian refugees, with graffiti in
Arabic. They did the job, and how; as they revealed online, they tagged the set,
which appeared in Sunday's episode, with messages including '' 'Homeland' is
racist'' and '' 'Homeland' is a joke.''

The track record of Showtime's drama, now in its fifth season, is, like its
geopolitical subject, complicated. But this incident is pretty straightforward
and embarrassing. The artists wrote a critique of ''Homeland'''s treatment of
Arab and Muslim characters into the show itself, in a language used by many of
its characters. Yet all anybody in charge of bringing the episode to air was
able to see was squibbly.

I don't want to paint the series with too broad a brush (or in this case, spray
it with too big a can). It's an entertainment, sometimes ridiculous, sometimes
smart, sometimes both at once. It has -- like other terrorism thrillers,
including ''24'' -- spun outlandish stories about fearsome, villainous, largely
Islamic terrorists. At the same time, it has tried to complicate its story
beyond us-vs.-them, focusing on the politics and paranoia within the national
security state; a major theme in Season 4, set in Pakistan, was the potential of
American drone strikes to radicalize the civilian population.

But as the graffiti stunt proves, the little details, the way a culture is
presented on screen, can be as important, and damaging, as the big political
picture. ''Homeland'' often uses scenes in which crowded streets in the Middle
East and the Islamic world (in addition to Pakistan and Afghanistan, the show
has also ventured to Iraq, Lebanon and Iran) stand for a kind of alien,
unintelligible chaos, a teeming welter of noise and dust and veils in which
danger can lurk anywhere. This problem was crystallized by the promotional
poster for Season 4, in which protagonist Carrie Mathison (Claire Danes) was
depicted as a white face in a sea of dark burqas.

Arguably, this kind of small detail is the greater problem with ''Homeland'' and
other American dramas set in the region: the tendency to use the signifiers of a
culture -- clothes, music, street urchins, unfamiliar writing -- as a kind of
spicy Orientalist soup of otherness. Even in a well-intended drama, if you
approach another culture as set decoration, in which the alien appearance
matters more than the content, you risk sending a subtle but strong message:
this is a terrifying, unknowable land where everything goes squibbly.

Let's grant that shooting and furnishing a set is hurried work that doesn't
allow endless time for checking details. (Even the graffiti artists said in
their post that the production was ''frantic.'') That there were no eyes on set
or in postproduction able to catch a criticism painted out for them should at
least alert the makers of ''Homeland'' to their potential blind spots.

In a statement after the incident, Alex Gansa, the showrunner, gave credit to
his show's hackers: ''We can't help but admire this act of artistic sabotage.''
Admiration is nice; even better would be if the makers of ''Homeland,'' and
other shows like it, could read the writing on the wall.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/10/15/homeland-graffiti-racist/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Graffiti artists hired to paint a Berlin set for ''Homeland''
tagged a wall with messages that called the show ''racist'' and ''a joke.''
(PHOTOGRAPH BY HEBA Y. AMIN, CARAM KAPP AND STONE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING
(90%); GRAFFITI (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); REAL
ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); REFUGEES
(73%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (72%); RELIGION (70%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (67%);
TERRORISM (62%); NATIONAL SECURITY (62%)

PERSON: JASON BATEMAN (92%); CLAIRE DANES (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%)

COUNTRY: IRAQ (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%);
UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LEBANON (78%); SYRIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Careful Calculus Guides Obama Administration in Health Insurance Projections

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 992 words


WASHINGTON --  In April 2014, President Obama declared victory in the
government's aggressive push to enroll people in private health insurance plans
under the Affordable Care Act, announcing that eight million people had signed
up for coverage.

''This thing is working,'' he said.

By the end of the year, enrollment was down to 6.3 million, but administration
officials confidently predicted a 44 percent increase for 2015.

So it was surprising this week when Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the secretary of
health and human services, predicted only slim gains in the coming year,
millions below earlier projections. Ms. Burwell suggested that a huge campaign
with thousands of field workers would be needed to keep enrollment at recent
levels.

Why did the Obama administration set such a modest goal? It was part of an
elaborate numbers game played for several years by proponents and opponents of
the health law.

On the one hand, administration officials want to manage expectations in a
presidential election year, when surpassing the goal will be better for
Democrats than falling short. In this respect, federal officials are like
corporate executives who smooth out earnings to meet or exceed projections given
to investors.

On the other hand, health policy experts said, the enrollment goal for 2016 may
be realistic. The White House aims to have 10 million people insured through the
new marketplaces at the end of 2016, an increase of just 100,000 over the number
enrolled in June of this year, and experts said it would not be easy to find and
enroll people who have refused to sign up for the last two years.

Stan Dorn, a health lawyer at the Urban Institute, a nonprofit research group,
said the enrollment goal was sensible. ''I am not optimistic that we will see
more than that,'' Mr. Dorn said. ''The easiest people to reach have already
signed up.''

Judith Solomon, a vice president at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities,
a liberal-leaning research and advocacy group, said the administration's target
was ''realistic but disappointing.''

The tax penalty for people who go without insurance will be higher next year:
$695 for each adult or nearly 2.5 percent of household income, whichever is
greater. That may encourage some people to enroll, Mr. Dorn said, but the cost
of insurance is ''still an obstacle'' for some.

Hillary Rodham Clinton is the latest prominent politician to suggest that the
Affordable Care Act is not so affordable for some people. A significant number
fail to pay their monthly premiums or struggle with high out-of-pocket costs for
medical services and prescription drugs.

The cautious calculus by the White House, as the administration gears up for the
third open-enrollment period, from Nov. 1 to Jan. 31, tends to confirm
perceptions of the health law that have been taking shape in the last two years.
The expansion of Medicaid appears to be a more durable source of coverage than
private insurance bought through the marketplaces.

Consumers with the lowest incomes receive the largest subsidies in the
exchanges, and many have concluded that subsidized insurance is a good value.
More than 80 percent of people using the federal exchange have incomes less than
250 percent of the poverty level (less than $29,425 a year for an individual).
But marketplace coverage has been less attractive to people with higher incomes
who receive less financial assistance.

One of the big questions raised by the new target is whether enrollment is
reaching a point where it will remain stable.

''We're not seeing evidence of having plateaued,'' said Richard G. Frank, an
assistant secretary of health and human services. But, he added, ''we are seeing
a much longer path to long-term equilibrium in the market.''

The Congressional Budget Office predicted in June that enrollment through the
exchanges would reach 20 million in 2016 and then level off around 22 million
through 2025.

The White House accepted the budget office's estimate for 2014 as a goal, but
now administration officials do their own analysis and projections, and they
take issue with the office's numbers.

If the administration's prediction disappointed supporters of the health law, it
was in part because the administration had pumped up expectations with several
years of optimistic reports on enrollment trends and market dynamics.

The history of Medicaid, enacted in 1965, and the Children's Health Insurance
Program, created in 1997, shows that it took years for them to gain momentum.
Medicaid did not include all states until 1982, when Arizona joined. In a 2001
report, the Congressional Research Service said that ''until recently, there was
general disappointment'' with the children's health initiative because of ''low
enrollment rates early in the program.''

The program for children, now seen as a great success, was devised and adopted
with broad bipartisan support from members of Congress and state officials.

By contrast, the Affordable Care Act was adopted without any Republican votes,
and Republicans' continual criticism of it may sow doubts among consumers about
its benefits.

''We've seen Republicans lie to the American public for years about it, and
they've spent hundreds of millions of dollars to propagate those lies,'' said
Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary. ''So the fact that there's a
little bit of confusion is not surprising to me.''

Robert Laszewski, a consultant who works with insurance companies, said the goal
announced Thursday by Ms. Burwell was astonishing and made him wonder, ''Has the
Obama administration given up on Obamacare?''

''Enrollment of 10 million people is not sustainable,'' Mr. Laszewski said.
''You need almost twice that number to have a viable pool of policyholders with
enough healthy people to pay for the sick.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/us/politics/careful-calculus-guides-obama-admi
nistration-in-health-insurance-projections.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM
(90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY
(90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US
DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EXECUTIVES
(78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY
(78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); BUDGETS (77%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (73%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (73%);
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); SYLVIA MATHEWS BURWELL (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON
(79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Boy Lord of the Piano Shows Confidence at Carnegie Hall

BYLINE: By DAVID ALLEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 457 words


Benjamin Grosvenor might be just 23, but he commands a stage with aristocratic
ease. As he sits at the piano, a slight figure, though not without presence, his
handkerchief dabs the keys free of sweat. The cloth tossed calmly away, he
begins.

And how. The darling of British pianophiles since his victory in the keyboard
finals of the BBC Young Musician of the Year competition in 2004, Mr. Grosvenor,
in his Carnegie Hall recital debut, at Zankel Hall on Thursday, proved a boy
lord of the piano. In a program of remembrances (of Bach, Couperin and Italy),
he recalled a distant age of pianism, playing with a judgment far beyond his
years and a tone so achingly antique it sounded as if it ought properly to be
heard through the crackle and hiss of an old monophonic record.

It is said that the greatest sportsmen are so secure in their talents that they
appear to have more time, at the plate or on the court, than anyone else. They
err, but they are unafraid to. A similar patience distinguishes Mr. Grosvenor
from the pack of young pianists touring concert halls today, and perhaps
elevates him above them. For all that Daniil Trifonov, Yuja Wang, Khatia
Buniatishvili and others can wow with speed or daring, Mr. Grosvenor makes you
sigh with joy.

[Video: Benjamin Grosvenor playing for the BBC Young Musician of the Year piano
final. Watch on YouTube.]

In Busoni's reimagination of Bach's ''Chaconne,'' he refused to show off,
instead displaying a noble confidence of purpose in the shape of a phrase or the
unfolding of a variation. In Liszt's ''Venezia e Napoli,'' ''Gondoliera''
glimmered, each dapple of reflected light subtly different, and while the
''Tarantella'' had its demonic side, it was the astonishing tension of line in
silken, peaceful moments that made the double-octave thunder all the more
shocking.

Time and again in this recital, Mr. Grosvenor less surmounted hurdles than waved
them nonchalantly away. In the chorale of Franck's ''Prélude, Chorale et
Fugue,'' chords that drop like spots of rain on a lake are spread over four
octaves and more, the left hand floating over the right. Most pianists are
content simply to reach that top note, but Mr. Grosvenor sang them with a
gossamer caress. Ravel's ''Le tombeau de Couperin,'' too, was unusually
gripping, immaculately poised in the Forlane, touched with porcelain delicacy in
the Fugue and Toccata.

Yet most exquisite were two of Mendelssohn's Opus 35 Preludes and Fugues, a
demonstration of perfect balance between the hands, of immaculate clarity of
voicing, of pliability of tempo -- above all of a temperament rare in
yesteryear, let alone now.

Benjamin Grosvenor performs in Paris on Nov. 25 and in Miami on Jan. 17;
benjamingrosvenor­.co­.uk.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/arts/music/review-benjamin-grosvenor-takes-car
negie-hall.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Benjamin Grosvenor, performing his Carnegie recital debut, at
Zankel Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFAN COHEN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%);
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS
THEATRICAL SERVICES (84%)

COUNTRY: ITALY (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Greek Lawmakers Clear Way for Bailout Cash

BYLINE: By NIKI KITSANTONIS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1030 words


ATHENS -- Greek lawmakers, despite heated debate, were poised to approve a
package of economic changes and austerity measures late Friday, aiming to unlock
the first slice of loan money from the country's nearly $98 billion
international bailout program.

The legislation covers some of the economic changes sought by the country's
international creditors, which include raising the retirement age, cutting
pensions, liberalizing the energy market, opening up cosseted professions,
expanding a property tax that Greeks already revile, and pushing forward a
stalled program to privatize state assets.

Passing the package could enable Greece to receive the first 2 billion euros, or
about $2.3 billion, from the bailout program.

It is only the first in a series of reforms and austerity measures the Greek
Parliament will be asked to approve in coming months in order to meet benchmarks
set down by Greece's international creditors, who plan to dispense money in
allotments as the country hits those targets.

The several days of parliamentary debate on the measures were frequently tense,
with the retirement changes and property tax among the provisions drawing fire
from lawmakers, who said they would only increase the country's austerity
burden.

Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras was expected, in a late-night vote, to secure the
support of virtually all his 155 lawmakers in the governing coalition, a slim
majority of the 300-member Parliament. It is Mr. Tsipras's first real test
following his re-election last month on a pledge to enforce Greece's third
bailout as painlessly as possible.

''Our only concern is to protect the working classes,'' Mr. Tsipras told
Parliament on Friday before the vote. ''We will keep our promises.''

In a speech to Parliament on Thursday, Mr. Tsipras's finance minister, Euclid
Tsakalotos, indicated that things could have been worse. The bill includes ''12
to 15 measures whose approval is necessary to unlock the ?2 billion,'' he said.
There were nearly three dozen demands by the creditors that could have been
included this time but were deferred for later.

As much as it needs the first dollop of loan money, Greece is also eager for the
debt relief that the country's creditors have promised to consider. That
consideration is supposed to follow the creditors' next review in the coming
weeks of Greece's progress in implementing reforms deemed crucial to getting its
battered economy back on track.

Before talks on debt can begin, an even tougher challenge looms. In the coming
weeks, Greek lawmakers must endorse a second set of measures, including highly
contentious plans to increase taxes for farmers and a broader overhaul of the
Greek pension system, in exchange for an additional ?1 billion, or about $1.13
billion, in loans. Farmers have already staged protests.

The first set of measures was controversial enough. Demonstrations have played
out on the streets, and labor unions planned larger rallies for Friday night
outside Parliament, protesting measures they warn will ''crush'' Greeks after
five years of austerity that have slashed living standards and pushed
unemployment above 25 percent.

The most controversial changes are those affecting retirees. The bill up for
vote Friday foresees the phasing out of early retirement for civil servants by
2022, so that all Greeks retire at 67, and introduces financial penalties for
those who retire before the age of 67. Until now, civil servants have been able
to retire much earlier. Military officers, for example, can stop working at 58.

Another disputed measure, which had foreseen an increase on the tax paid on
rental income by Greek property owners, was hastily withdrawn following an
outcry from the political opposition and the association representing Greek
property owners, many of whom are struggling to rent out their properties in a
persisting recession. A provision that would have obliged property owners to pay
tax even on rental income they have not collected was regarded as particularly
outrageous.

The tax measures are expected to eventually be put to a vote, though.

Just hours before the vote, government officials were scrambling to identify
measures that would replace plans for a 23 percent sales tax on private schools,
which Mr. Tsipras had promised to suspend in response to a public outcry.

But a despised property tax, introduced four years ago as an emergency measure,
has been broadened to include most buildings and surrounding plots of land.

Government officials conceded that many of the reforms were tough. They pledged
to introduce new measures as soon as possible to offset the austerity.

Mr. Tsipras's political rivals responded in scathing tones. The main
conservative opposition party, New Democracy, compared the government's efforts
to those of Sisyphus, a Greek mythological figure eternally condemned to push a
boulder up a mountain, only to watch it roll down again, over and over. Notably,
many of the measures in the new bill had been promised to creditors by the
previous New Democracy-led coalition but were never enforced.

Mr. Tsipras, originally elected in January on a promise to fight austerity,
later backtracked and signed a compromise with Greece's creditors in July after
months of torturous talks. His about-face led to a rebellion that split his
leftist Syriza party and triggered general elections that Mr. Tsipras won after
promising to implement Greece's third bailout while seeking to soften the impact
of its harsher aspects.

According to a draft budget introduced this month, Greece's debt will exceed 180
percent of gross domestic product this year and rise above 190 percent of G.D.P.
in 2016. Only Japan, which is able to finance its debt, has a higher ratio.

A projected Greek recession of 2.3 percent this year is expected to ease only
slightly next year, when the economy is forecast to contract by 1.3 percent.

Greece's banks pose a particular problem, burdened as they are by a mountain of
nonperforming loans and essentially unable to support the real economy. An
assessment of Greek banks' capital needs by the European Central Bank is
expected to be completed by the end of the month.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/international/greece-legislation-econ
omy-austerity-measures.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A demonstration on Friday in Athens against a bill that contains
a package of economic changes and austerity measures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALKIS
KONSTANTINIDIS/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); FOREIGN
LENDING (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%);
LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%);
PRIVATIZATION (77%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%);
RETIREMENT AGE (76%); PENSION REFORM (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%);
EURO (72%); TAX INCREASES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%);
RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (71%); PROTESTS &
DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%)

PERSON: ALEXIS TSIPRAS (79%)

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (93%)

COUNTRY: GREECE (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Google's Digital Library Wins Court of Appeals Ruling

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA ALTER

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 388 words


A United States appeals court ruled on Friday that Google's effort to build a
digital library of millions of books was ''fair use'' and did not infringe on
the copyrights of authors.

''The purpose of the copying is highly transformative, the public display of
text is limited, and the revelations do not provide a significant market
substitute for the protected aspects of the originals,'' Judge Pierre N. Leval
of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit wrote, explaining the court's
decision.

The ruling affirmed a decision that was reached two years ago in a lower court.
In that case, the court rejected the claims by the Authors Guild, a writers'
organization, that Google's book scanning project is a commercial venture that
violates authors' copyrights and drives down sales by making portions of their
work available online free.

This week's court decision is the latest blow for the Authors Guild, which has
been fighting Google for a decade.

A representative of the Authors Guild said the group planned to take the case to
the Supreme Court.

''America owes its thriving literary culture to copyright protection,'' Mary
Rasenberger, executive director of the Authors Guild in New York, said in a
statement. ''We are very disheartened that the court was unable to understand
the grave impact that this decision, if left standing, could have on copyright
incentives and, ultimately, our literary heritage.''

Since 2004, Google has been building a vast digital library and has scanned more
than 20 million books. The project began when Google approached major research
libraries about scanning and digitizing books from their collections. The
scanned books can be searched through the Google Books search engine, which
allows readers to search books for keywords or phrases and read some snippets of
text.

Google has argued that making books available to search online might actually
bolster sales and introduce readers to hard-to-find and out-of-print books. In a
statement, Google said: ''Today's decision underlines what people who use the
service tell us: Google Books gives them a useful and easy way to find books
they want to read and buy, while at the same time benefiting copyright holders.
We're pleased the court has confirmed that the project is fair use, acting like
a card catalog for the digital age.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/media/googles-digital-library-wins-co
urt-of-appeals-ruling.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The British Library in London. Google has been building a vast
digital library, scanning and digitizing printed books. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL
HACKETT/REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (92%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (92%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (92%); APPEALS (92%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); APPEALS COURTS
(91%); COPYRIGHT (91%); WRITERS (90%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (90%); LITERATURE
(89%); LIBRARY TECHNOLOGY (89%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (89%); LIBRARIES (78%); BOOK
REVIEWS (78%); COPYRIGHT LAW (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); SEARCH ENGINES (63%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(98%)

PERSON: PIERRE N LEVAL (79%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (59%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Leading French Socialists Chip Away at Socialism

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1455 words


PARIS -- One is the bad boy of France's Socialist government, the young former
banker who has infuriated party die-hards by questioning France's devotion to
the 35-hour workweek and wondering aloud about coddled civil servants.

The other is the government's tough guy -- on crime and immigration -- equally
obnoxious to the Socialist Party's old guard.

That two men -- the economy minister, Emmanuel Macron, and Prime Minister Manuel
Valls -- so at odds with French Socialism's orthodoxy are its de facto leaders
is a measure of the depths of the party's struggle for direction.

With the far-right National Front party surging in polls as local elections
approach in December, France's politics is being relentlessly driven from the
right.

Yet it remains a country where public spending is 56 percent of gross domestic
product, government workers are well over 20 percent of the labor force, and any
hint of a loosening of economic rules prompts strikes and street protests.

The emergence of the youthful tandem at the top of the Socialist government is
provoking fundamental questions about the future of the party and whether it can
remake -- or at least moderate -- itself in an era of stubborn 10 percent
unemployment, chronic deficits and flat growth.

It is a challenge that has become all the more urgent as the threat presented by
the National Front leader, Marine Le Pen, has grown and the old Socialist Party,
embodied in President François Hollande, who came up through its ranks, has
shown little traction with voters.

Mr. Macron, the former banker, likes financiers, and Mr. Valls, the government's
tough guy, likes the police. Neither speaks much about redistributing wealth.
But both are far more popular now than Mr. Hollande, who drew a 22 percent
approval rating in a recent poll.

Through the late summer and early fall Mr. Macron has unapologetically launched
pinpricks at Socialist dogma. In other contexts they would have appeared mild,
but in France they have been incendiary.

Mr. Macron's sorties have provoked sputters of rage from tradition-minded
activists and the party's still solid base, but the economy minister, a
self-confident 37-year-old, keeps on talking.

On Tuesday, as Mr. Macron spoke at a conference in Lyon, a protester threw a
yogurt pot at him, yelling: ''You are murdering the unemployed!''

Two op-ed columnists wrote recently in the newspaper Le Monde of ''the disgust
that the Macron-Valls axis inspires,'' asking, ''How could the left have arrived
at this point?''

The answer, no doubt, derives from a political calculation of their boss, Mr.
Hollande, who put them in place in a nod to his own unpopularity and lack of
success in taking on his party's old guard.

Despite the turbulence Mr. Macron and Mr. Valls have stirred, the president has
shown no sign of reining in the two men, who may soon be serious political
rivals. Mr. Hollande has pledged not to run for re-election if he cannot bring
down unemployment.

If Mr. Macron and Mr. Valls represent a vision of the party's future, it is one
seemingly out of step with the traditions of its past.

Mr. Macron appears more at ease with business leaders than workers, and through
the criticism he has continued to address corporate executives and others who do
not normally sit still for speeches from Socialist government ministers.

Mr. Valls, 53, was recently accused by a leading Socialist parliamentarian of
being nothing more than a ''fount of liberal ideas'' -- in the French context, a
defender of free markets. He was forced to push through a signature piece of the
government's economic agenda over the heads of his own legislators this year.

As the divisions within the party become ever more evident -- and antagonistic
-- French analysts are having difficulty identifying what the Socialists
actually stand for.

''The governing party has neither a project nor intellectual consistency,''
Marcel Gauchet, a historian and philosopher, wrote last year in a leading
political journal, Le Débat. ''At its top all ideological credibility has
vanished.''

Nor is it clear whom the left now represents, Mr. Gauchet said.

''It prospered on its identification with 'the people,' '' he said in the
review, which he edits. ''But it is less and less of the working class.''

The National Front, on the other hand, represents ''the strongest synthesis in
French politics,'' Mr. Gauchet said: ''the confluence of nationalist claims and
social welfare claims.''

In fact, most analysts say the National Front will make it at least to the final
round of presidential elections in 2017, if not beyond. In a poll published
Sunday, Ms. Le Pen drew 31 percent support in the 2017 presidential race.

Already, some analysts say the National Front could be unbeatable, having also
left the conservative party led by former President Nicolas Sarkozy in early
disarray.

In Le Débat, Le Monde's national editor said this month of the National Front:
''I don't see what could stop it.''

The contempt Ms. Le Pen showed Mr. Hollande to his face last week at the
European Parliament in Strasbourg demonstrated her party's confidence and
ascendancy.

She mockingly thanked the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, also present, for
''coming with your vice-chancellor administrator of province-France,'' Mr.
Hollande.

Mr. Hollande did not address Ms. Le Pen's insult -- a veiled reference to
France's conquered status in World War II -- directly. Ms. Le Pen then further
mocked his response as ''lightweight.''

In their effort to restore the stature of their party and country, Mr. Valls and
Mr. Macron have pushed forward a program closer to those of the Social
Democratic parties of Europe than those of traditional Socialists.

Last week, after workers publicly ripped the shirts off Air France executives in
a labor dispute turned violent, Mr. Valls leapt up in Parliament.

But instead of defending the workers, he denounced them, saying their actions
were ''intolerable,'' calling for ''exemplary punishments,'' and faulting the
pilots' union for lack of ''responsibility.''

Traditional left leaders, by contrast, defended the shirt rippers, who have
since been arrested.

Likewise, on Wednesday, Mr. Valls quickly moved to mollify angry police officers
demonstrating over a recent shooting of one of their own, announcing new
measures to strengthen law enforcement.

Mr. Macron, whose past as a banker at Rothschild and Company is a constant
source of reproach for Socialist Party activists, upset them this year with an
economic reform law that tried to open up some professions to greater
competition and has yet to make much of an impact. And he has been at it again,
upsetting them consistently since late August.

''The left might have thought, some time ago, that France could do better in
working less,'' Mr. Macron told an employers' federation, in an indirect
reference to the 35-hour workweek, sacred to the left but derided by economists.
''All of that is now behind us,'' Mr. Macron said.

Then he infuriated the Socialist old guard by appearing to call into question
the protected status of civil servants -- ''no longer adapted to the world as it
is,'' Mr. Macron was quoted as saying in a briefing meant to be off the record.

He has also been at war with the Socialist mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo, over
opening up sections of the city to Sunday shopping, regarded warily by
Socialists as an infringement on workers' rights and a cave-in to consumerism.

Mr. Macron's Sunday-shopping plans ''reveal the fantasy of a city turned over
entirely to tourist consumerism,'' Ms. Hidalgo wrote in a recent letter to the
economy minister.

One of the staunchest of the old-line Socialist bosses, the mayor of Lille,
Martine Aubry, said she was ''fed up'' with the ex-banker who appears to have
taken over the party's economic policy.

But the prime minister has backed him. And in the French Parliament, there has
been silence: A movement in its ranks dedicated to fighting the free-market turn
of government policy has barely uttered a word all fall.

At a meeting of producers and retailers of consumer goods, executives listened
to Mr. Macron respectfully one morning recently.

He told the business leaders that the state would be watching over their
negotiations, especially attentive to signs that competition was being hindered.
But his message on the state's limits, not its powers, was strongest.

''The role of the state is not to block initiatives,'' the economy minister
said. ''The state can't do everything, and it can't be in every negotiation.''

Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: European Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/europe/leaders-of-frances-socialist-part
y-defy-its-orthodoxy.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President François Hollande of France, center, with Prime
Minister Manuel Valls, left, and Emmanuel Macron, the economy minister. The
latter two have angered the party's old guard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIONEL
BONAVENTURE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); FRENCH
PRESIDENTS (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS &
ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WORK WEEK (77%); FULL TIME
EMPLOYMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING
(74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); WRITERS (60%); IMMIGRATION (56%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (89%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LYON, FRANCE (79%)

COUNTRY: FRANCE (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama's Comments About Clinton's Emails Rankle Some in the F.B.I.

BYLINE: By MATT APUZZO and MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT; Peter Baker and Julie Hirschfeld
Davis contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1417 words


WASHINGTON --  Federal agents were still cataloging the classified information
from Hillary Rodham Clinton's personal email server last week when President
Obama went on television and played down the matter.

''I don't think it posed a national security problem,'' Mr. Obama said Sunday on
CBS's ''60 Minutes.'' He said it had been a mistake for Mrs. Clinton to use a
private email account when she was secretary of state, but his conclusion was
unmistakable: ''This is not a situation in which America's national security was
endangered.''

Those statements angered F.B.I. agents who have been working for months to
determine whether Mrs. Clinton's email setup did in fact put any of the nation's
secrets at risk, according to current and former law enforcement officials.

Investigators have not reached any conclusions about whether the information on
the server was compromised or whether to recommend charges, according to the law
enforcement officials. But to investigators, it sounded as if Mr. Obama had
already decided the answers to their questions and cleared anyone involved of
wrongdoing.

The White House quickly backed off the president's remarks and said he had not
been trying to influence the investigation. But his comments spread quickly,
raising the ire of officials who saw an instance of the president trying to
influence the outcome of a continuing investigation -- and not for the first
time.

A spokesman for the F.B.I. declined to comment. But Ron Hosko, a former senior
F.B.I. official who retired in 2014 and is now the president of the Law
Enforcement Legal Defense Fund, said it was inappropriate for the president to
''suggest what side of the investigation he is on'' when the F.B.I. is still
investigating.

''Injecting politics into what is supposed to be a fact-finding inquiry leaves a
foul taste in the F.B.I.'s mouth and makes them fear that no matter what they
find, the Justice Department will take the president's signal and not bring a
case,'' said Mr. Hosko, who maintains close contact with current agents.

Several current and former law enforcement officials, including those close to
the investigation, expressed similar sentiments in separate interviews over
several days. Most, however, did so only on the condition of anonymity because
they were not authorized to speak publicly about the case.

The White House said Thursday that Mr. Obama had not been commenting on the
merits of the investigation, but rather had been explaining why he believes the
controversy over Mrs. Clinton's emails has been overblown. The president,
officials said, was merely noting that the emails that have been publicly
released so far have not imperiled national security.

''There's a debate among national security experts, as part of their ongoing,
independent review, about how or even whether to classify sections of those
emails,'' said Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary. ''But, as the
president said, there is no evidence to indicate that the information in those
emails endangered our national security.''

Whether Mr. Obama's remarks have a lasting effect beyond upsetting some F.B.I.
officials depends on the investigation's outcome.

Since the email inquiry began this past summer, investigators have been
scrutinizing everyone who came in contact with Mrs. Clinton's server and trying
to determine whether anyone sent or received classified information, whether
that information was compromised and whether any of this amounted to a crime.

Tensions among career F.B.I. agents, the political appointees who run the
Justice Department and the White House are commonplace. In deciding whether to
bring charges in a case, F.B.I. agents are often more bullish. Prosecutors, with
an eye toward trying to win at trial, tend to be more cautious and have the
final say. As such, no administration, Democratic or Republican, is immune from
the suspicion that politics has influenced case decisions.

But Mr. Obama's remarks in the Clinton email case were met with particular anger
at the F.B.I. because they echoed comments he made in 2012, shortly after it was
revealed that a former C.I.A. director, David H. Petraeus, was under
investigation, accused of providing classified information to a mistress who was
writing a book about him.

''I have no evidence at this point, from what I've seen, that classified
information was disclosed that in any way would have had a negative impact on
our national security,'' the president said at a 2012 news conference, as the
F.B.I. was trying to answer that very question about Mr. Petraeus.

At the time, the Obama administration was leading a historic crackdown on
government officials who discussed national security matters with reporters,
even when that information was never disclosed publicly. But Mr. Petraeus was a
four-star general, a White House adviser and the most celebrated military leader
of his generation. F.B.I. officials were concerned that he would receive
preferential treatment.

The F.B.I. ultimately concluded that Mr. Petraeus should face felony charges and
a possible prison sentence. He had not only provided highly classified
information to his biographer, including notes about war strategy and the
identity of covert officials, but also lied to agents about it. James B. Comey,
the F.B.I director, made the case to the attorney general, Eric H. Holder Jr.,
that Mr. Petraeus deserved to face strenuous charges.

But the Justice Department overruled the F.B.I., and this year, the department
allowed Mr. Petraeus to plead guilty to a misdemeanor. He was spared jail time
and remained an informal White House adviser.

Although current and former senior officials at the Justice Department who were
involved in the case said the decision was not influenced by the White House,
F.B.I. agents came to view Mr. Obama's remarks about Mr. Petraeus as a harbinger
of the ultimate outcome.

Presidents typically decline to comment on cases under investigation or in the
courts, citing the need to avoid prejudicing legal proceedings. Often, that
tradition is politically convenient, offering them an easy excuse when they
would rather not answer questions about the behavior of allies and aides.

Mr. Obama has skirted that line on a few occasions. In 2013, he proclaimed that
troops who commit sexual assault should be ''court-martialed, fired,
dishonorably discharged,'' which provided ammunition to defense lawyers who
argued that the commander in chief had prejudiced proceedings.

Mr. Obama is not the first president to generate criticism for weighing in on
cases. George W. Bush was criticized when he told an interviewer that he
believed Representative Tom DeLay of Texas was innocent of illegal fund-raising
charges. Mr. DeLay's conviction was overturned last year.

The federal law used against Mr. Petraeus prohibits officials from knowingly
taking classified information ''with the intent to retain'' it at ''an
unauthorized location.'' A second, more serious charge makes it a felony to
remove classified information through gross negligence. Officials at both the
F.B.I. and the Justice Department acknowledge that those laws set a high bar for
criminal charges in the email case.

Mr. Obama said he had no impression that Mrs. Clinton had purposely tried ''to
hide something or to squirrel away information.'' In doing so, Mr. Obama spoke
directly to a core component of the law used against Mr. Petraeus, intent, and
said he did not think it applied in Mrs. Clinton's case.

Since the existence of Mrs. Clinton's account was revealed in March, she has
provided a series of different explanations about whether she sent or received
classified information from the account.

Mrs. Clinton is to testify next week before the Republican-controlled House
committee investigating the 2012 attack in Benghazi, Libya. The committee, which
has come under intense scrutiny in recent weeks after two Republican lawmakers
said it was created to harm the political fortunes of Mrs. Clinton, is expected
to ask her about her unorthodox email arrangement.

Mr. Comey, the F.B.I. director, acknowledged this month the difficulties posed
by the investigation. He said one reason he had a 10-year term was ''to make
sure this organization stays outside of politics.''

''If you know my folks,'' he said, ''you know they don't give a rip about
politics.''

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/us/politics/obamas-comments-on-clinton-emails-
collide-with-fbi-inquiry.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama said in a ''60 Minutes'' interview on Sunday
that he did not think Hillary Rodham Clinton's use of a private email server as
secretary of state hurt national security. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CBS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC MAIL (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); US
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%);
US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); INTERVIEWS
(89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); INTERNET PRIVACY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%);
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Oil Companies Declare Support for U.N. Climate Goals, but Make No Commitments

BYLINE: By STANLEY REED; Lilia Blaise contributed reporting from Paris.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1110 words


LONDON -- Ten of the world's big oil companies, mainly from Europe, jointly
acknowledged on Friday that their industry must help address global climate
change and said that they agreed with the United Nations' goals of limiting
global warming.

The public declaration by a group called the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative was
an effort to convince an increasingly skeptical world that energy companies,
whose fossil fuels are a big source of greenhouse gases, are serious about
delivering cleaner energy and combating climate change.

But the impact of that statement might be limited.

None of the biggest American oil companies signed the declaration or were part
of the group. The companies that were involved -- including BP, Royal Dutch
Shell, Saudi Aramco and Total -- made no specific commitments toward helping to
meet the climate challenge. Instead, they indicated they would await government
regulations to chart the way forward.

Eight of the chief executives in the group discussed its aims at a news
conference on Friday in Paris, looking ahead to the United Nations climate
conference Nov. 30 to Dec. 11 in the French capital.

Robert Dudley, an American who is chief executive of BP, the oil company based
in London, expressed optimism on Friday, despite the lack of participation by
companies from the United States. ''I think we can make the difference,'' Mr.
Dudley, who is chairman of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, told reporters in
Paris. ''Almost every company here has large investments in the United States.''

The companies in the oil group said they would support the climate conference's
effort to reach a global climate change agreement at the Paris conference. They
specifically cited the United Nations' target of staving off a rise in the
atmospheric temperature of 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit (2 degrees Celsius).

By recognizing that goal, the executives are putting themselves in a tricky
position. Meeting that target would require leaving much of the world's existing
oil, gas and coal reserves unburned and would require the companies to make
major changes in the way they do business.

Many experts, including people in the oil industry, doubt that the goal can be
met.

The executives acknowledged that ''the existing trend of the world's net global
greenhouse gas emissions is not consistent with this ambition.'' In other words,
the world's factories and vehicles are still pumping out far too much carbon
dioxide.

But the executives, who said their companies provided nearly 10 percent of the
world's energy, did not commit to any new limits on their own activities.
Instead, they left it up to governments to establish regulations and other
measures that would encourage them ''to take informed decisions and make
effective and sustainable contributions to addressing climate change.''

Neil Beveridge, an oil analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said the industry
deserved credit at least for acknowledging its role in climate change. ''It is a
big, big step for such a large number of companies to gather,'' he said. ''Over
the years, a lot of companies have been in denial on this issue.''

But Anthony Hobley, chief executive of Carbon Tracker, a London organization
that advises on the risks of investing in energy companies, noted the limits of
Friday's statement. ''There was no commitment to get out ahead of government,''
he said.

American giants like Chevron and ExxonMobil are among those that appear to
disapprove of the European-led initiative, partly because the potential remedies
-- like carbon taxes or the trading of carbon-emission permits -- that many
experts say are necessary to curb greenhouse gases would almost inevitably raise
the price of their fuels.

''I've never had a customer come to me and ask to pay a higher price for oil,
gas or other products,'' John S. Watson, the chief executive of Chevron, told a
meeting hosted in June in Vienna by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting
Countries.

Rex W. Tillerson, ExxonMobil's chief executive, has repeatedly said that he
would support putting a price on carbon as long as it was ''revenue neutral.''

An explicit call for putting a high price on carbon emissions was deliberately
omitted from Friday's declaration. Claudio Descalzi, chief executive of the
Italian oil company Eni, and a participant in the group, said in an interview on
Friday that most of his European colleagues agreed that some form of carbon levy
would eventually be essential.

''Carbon pricing is the only way to have a reasonable energy mix'' to sustain
the 3.6-degree ceiling, he said. But he said Friday's declaration used
less-specific language to bring some of the international companies on board.
''Now we are trying to create a consensus,'' he said.

The other members of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative are Statoil of Norway;
Repsol of Spain; the Mexican company Pemex; the Indian company Reliance
Industries; and the BG Group of Britain.

The United Nations goal of limiting global warming to about 3.6 degrees is based
on a comparison to temperatures in the preindustrial 19th century. That level of
warming, although potentially producing dire effects on agriculture, sea level
and the natural world, could stave off the most severe impacts of drought, food
and water shortages, and widespread flooding -- events that could profoundly
harm the world's population and economy.

But to achieve that limit would require severe reductions in carbon emissions by
2050.

The companies' statement on Friday included a list of ways they said they would
collaborate to increase energy efficiency and reduce emissions. Those included
cleaning up their own operations and reducing methane emissions that escape from
oil and gas installations.

''Technologies can deliver the solutions for the future,'' Patrick Pouyanné,
Total's chief executive, said in Paris on Friday. ''On this climate change, we
prefer to collaborate rather than to compete.''

The companies also said they would work with automakers and consumers to improve
vehicle fuel economy. Big on the companies' agenda, too, are efforts to give
natural gas a bigger share of the global energy mix.

Of the group, Shell and Total in particular have invested heavily in
natural-gas-related businesses in recent years. They portray natural gas as a
fossil fuel that produces fewer carbon emissions than oil -- and much less than
coal, which is dirtier and often cheaper than natural gas.

''We have to shift from coal to gas so there is an opportunity here,'' Josu Jon
Imaz of Repsol said on Friday in Paris.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/energy-environment/oil-companies-clim
ate-change-un.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, the chiefs of BG Group, Eni, Pemex, BP, Saudi Aramco,
Total, Statoil and Repsol. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC PIERMONT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE --
GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); UNITED NATIONS
INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%);
GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); TRENDS
(77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); AGREEMENTS (75%);
EXECUTIVES (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES &
AGREEMENTS (73%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (85%); SAUDI ARAMCO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (85%); RDSA (AMS) (85%); RDS.B (NYSE) (85%); RDS.A (NYSE)
(85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%);
NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS325110
PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT DUDLEY (79%)

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%)

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (75%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

G.E. Profit Tops Forecasts, Despite a Slip in Revenue

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 392 words


General Electric reported a better-than-expected third-quarter profit on Friday,
helped by cost cuts and higher sales from its jet engine business, which offset
struggles in its oil and gas segment.

The conglomerate, which is pulling back from financial services, also said
industrial revenue grew 4 percent, excluding the impact of foreign currency
swings and acquisitions.

The company maintained its profit forecast for its core industrials segment of
$1.13 to $1.20 a share for the full year.

G.E.'s orders dropped 26 percent, including a big decline in oil-related orders,
but an Edward Jones analyst, Jeff Windau, said the company ''had some big orders
last year, so the comparison was pretty tough.''

Shares, up about 10 percent since the activist investor Nelson Peltz revealed a
$2.5 billion stake in the company this month, rose 95 cents, to $28.98, on
Friday. It was the biggest percentage gainer on the Dow Jones industrial
average.

On another positive note for shareholders, G.E. said it expected to retire as
much as 7 percent of its outstanding floated shares by mid-November, as it
completes the spinoff of its former retail finance business, Synchrony
Financial. The Federal Reserve this week said Synchrony could function alone.

The Synchrony split is part of G.E.'s big retreat from financial services, which
began in earnest in April when it said it would divest itself of some $200
billion worth of its GE Capital financing assets to focus on industrial
manufacturing.

Including the Synchrony split, G.E. said it expected to return about $30 billion
in cash to shareholders this year through GE Capital divestitures.

For the quarter, net earnings fell 29 percent from a year earlier to $2.51
billion, or 25 cents a share. Excluding items, earnings of 29 cents a share
exceeded the average estimate of analysts by 3 cents, according to Thomson
Reuters I/B/E/S.

Revenue slipped 1.3 percent to $31.68 billion. Revenue in its oil and gas
segment dropped 16 percent because of weakness in crude prices.

Aviation revenue increased 5 percent, while revenue in its power and water
division, its biggest segment, grew 1 percent.

The chief, Jeffrey R. Immelt, expressed confidence that the $3.3 billion sale of
G.E.'s appliances unit to Electrolux of Sweden would close this quarter, despite
a challenge from United States regulators.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/ge-shares-rise-as-quarterly-profit-be
ats-expectations.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A General Electric jet engine during testing. Aviation revenue
increased 5 percent during the company's third quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GE
AVIATION)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY
PROFITS (90%); DIVESTITURES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT
(78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%);
CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BUSINESS
FORECASTS (76%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (74%); NEW ISSUES (74%); PRICE INCREASES
(73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG
(69%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (95%); SYNCHRONY FINANCIAL (94%); THOMSON REUTERS
CORP (53%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (95%); GEC (LSE) (95%); GE (SWX) (95%); GE (NYSE) (95%); SYF
(NYSE) (94%); TRI (TSX) (53%); TRI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%);
NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (95%);
NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS522110
COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (94%);
NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7375
INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (59%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing | Asia; India: Legal Setback for Prime Minister

BYLINE: By NIDA NAJAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 474 words


NEW DELHI --  India's Supreme Court declared on Friday that a law pushed by the
government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that would have increased the
executive branch's power over the selection of judges was unconstitutional, a
decision hailed as a landmark affirming the independence of the judiciary.

''If the alignment of tectonic plates on distribution of powers is disturbed, it
will quake the Constitution,'' Justice Kurian Joseph, one of five judges who
heard the case, wrote in the ruling. ''Once the constitutional structure is
shaken, democracy collapses.''

But Friday's decision was not without controversy, because it upheld a system of
appointments to higher courts by a panel of judges, known as a collegium, that
has been criticized for a lack of transparency.

India has a long tradition of a judiciary independent from the rest of the
government, a situation reinforced by a Supreme Court decision in 1993 creating
the collegium system and all but cutting the executive branch out of the
selection process.

Lawyers have said the 1993 decision was reached in part because of controversies
surrounding the transfer of judges during a two-year state of emergency,
beginning in 1975, when Prime Minister Indira Gandhi's government exercised
sweeping and arbitrary powers.

In April, Mr. Modi's government enacted the National Judicial Appointments
Commission Act, which was struck down on Friday. It had been passed unanimously
by a Parliament that is rarely unified, along with a constitutional amendment
ensuring its validity, but the commission was never formed because the Supreme
Court case was underway.

Though legal analysts and the many lawyers who had argued against the law called
Friday's decision a victory for the separation of powers and democracy, experts
also agreed with the government's argument that the existing process of
appointing judges was flawed and insufficiently open.

''Appointments will continue to be made in an opaque system where all the
stakeholders will not have their voice,'' said the attorney general, Mukul
Rohatgi.

The court appeared to acknowledge the criticism in its judgment, calling for a
review of the collegium process in a separate hearing ''to make it more
responsive to the needs of the people'' and ''to make it more transparent and in
tune with societal needs.'' Legal experts have criticized the collegium process
as vesting too much discretion in a panel of senior judges to appoint the legal
decision makers in the country's highest courts.

The law struck down on Friday would have set up a panel of three judges, the law
minister and two ''eminent persons'' nominated by the chief justice and the
central government. Many analysts said it gave too much power to the government.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/asia/india-supreme-court-narendra-modi-j
udge-selection.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS &
DECISIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%);
APPOINTMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LAWYERS (89%); JUDGES
(89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); APPEALS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%);
EARTHQUAKES (76%)

PERSON: NARENDRA MODI (92%)

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%)

COUNTRY: INDIA (96%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Puerto Rico Governor's Fiscal Oversight Plan Raises Doubts

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 957 words


The governor of debt-burdened Puerto Rico gave lawmakers his proposal for
creating a fiscal control board, setting up a debate over how best to rebuild
credibility with the capital markets while still preserving the island's
sovereignty.

Gov. Alejandro García Padilla's bill would give the control board oversight over
nearly all branches of the island's central government, including agencies and
authorities that have issued all but about $17 billion of the island's $72
billion in debt. The island's big public utilities that provide electricity and
water were excluded from the board's oversight.

The governor's bill was submitted to the legislature Thursday evening. On
Friday, the island's powerful Government Development Bank issued a summary,
stating that the control board would help Puerto Rico ''by seeking to restore
public confidence in the Commonwealth, while also remaining in compliance with
the Commonwealth's constitution.''

Some doubts have emerged, however, because, among other things, the bill called
for the governor to appoint all five members of the board. Previous discussions
of a control board called for at least some outsiders, to guard against
conflicts between the members' duty to demand difficult fiscal reforms and their
loyalty to the governor, who is up for re-election next year.

''It has pros and cons,'' said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, president of the American
Action Forum, who recently testified on Puerto Rico's financial affairs before
the Senate Finance Committee. ''It has independent financing, broad subpoena
powers, a pretty broad mandate -- those things are good.''

The main problem that he saw, he said, was that the governor's control board
would be required to oversee the governor's own five-year plan for fiscal reform
and economic growth.

''Its effectiveness is as good as you think that plan is, and I didn't see
anything like universal praise for that plan when it first came out,'' Mr.
Holtz-Eakin said. The five-year plan was issued in September.

Puerto Rico has been effectively shut out of the capital markets this year and
has warned that it would probably run out of cash in November, with large bond
payments coming due in December and January. In urgent need of cash, it has been
trying to rebuild its credibility as a borrower, even as it has sought to
restructure its $72 billion of outstanding debt.

Officials in Puerto Rico could not be reached to comment on the plan.

The five-year plan includes a slowdown in debt payments, to make cash available
for essential services while the government carries out reforms. The details of
how different types of bonds would be affected, and by how much, have not been
made public. But one of the control board's roles, eventually, would be to
reassure the affected bondholders that Puerto Rico was using their money as
promised, to foster sustainable, long-term growth.

The control board is meant to ''provide Puerto Rico's creditors with assurances
that conditions agreed to as part of any comprehensive debt restructuring
agreement'' would be ''monitored by an independent, nonpolitical body,'' the
Government Development Bank said in its summary.

Some bondholders said they would probably oppose the governor's vision of a
control board.

''Our view is that the effectiveness of any control board is entirely about who
is on it,'' said one person with knowledge of the bondholders' thinking, who
spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak for
any particular group. ''If these people are appointed by the governor, without
outside oversight, it could just be a proxy for the governor's authority.''

Mr. Holtz-Eakin, who previously led the Congressional Budget Office, said that
control boards could be made to be too independent, as well as not independent
enough.

''It's a very tough thing to get right,'' he said. A control board that demanded
painful measures like tax increases, for instance, might ultimately be accused
of infringing on the island's sovereign authority.

Control boards have been used in many distressed American municipalities --
currently in Detroit, for example -- to make sure bonds are paid on time,
budgets remain in balance and money is not spent on politically popular but
fiscally unsound programs. Their composition and powers can vary widely.

To qualify for the governor's control board, nominees would need at least 10
years of experience in relevant fields like finance or law, and they could not
have held governmental positions within the last five years. They would not
qualify if they held Puerto Rican bonds, either directly or indirectly through
mutual funds with significant Puerto Rican holdings. All nominees would have to
be approved by the Puerto Rican Senate.

A new version of the five-year economic plan is due by the end of December; the
control board would then vet it and recommend changes until members were
satisfied that it was effective and compliant with relevant laws. The lower
bodies of government under the board's control would be required to submit their
own budgets to the board by March 1.

Puerto Rico has been holding talks with some creditors about a possible debt
exchange, in which investors would turn in the Puerto Rican bonds they now hold
and receive new ones, with a lower value but a greater likelihood of repayment.

A number of creditors have steered clear of the talks so far, thinking they
might be better off fighting such a debt exchange in court. Puerto Rico's
constitution explicitly gives general-obligation bondholders first call on the
island's ''available resources,'' and investors in that type of debt think they
could successfully challenge the constitutionality of any attempt to make them
accept less.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/dealbook/puerto-rico-governors-fiscal
-oversight-plan-raises-doubts.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Alejandro García Padilla has proposed a board whose members
he would appoint to oversee most of the government. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICARDO
ARDUENGO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%);
SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%);
SUBPOENAS (74%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); POLITICAL
CANDIDATES (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (56%)

PERSON: ALEJANDRO GARCIA PADILLA (88%)

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Online Dating Business Files to Go Public

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg.

LENGTH: 245 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- While the market for initial public offerings has been
unfriendly in recent weeks, IAC/InterActiveCorp is betting that investors will
still flock to buy a piece of a top online dating company.

IAC's Match Group, the home of Tinder, Match.com and OkCupid, filed to go public
on Friday, setting the stage for the company to gain at least some distance from
its corporate parent.

IAC said in June that it would split off Match, with the Internet conglomerate's
founder, Barry Diller, saying that it was ''healthy to give them separation and
independence from a mother church.''

Match has shown steady growth over the past three years. Its net earnings for
last year rose 64 percent from 2012, to $148.4 million. Its revenue for the same
period rose almost 25 percent, to $888.3 million.

As of Sept. 30, the company had about 59 million monthly active users and
roughly 4.7 million paid members.

Unusually, Match isn't entirely devoted to facilitating dates: It also owns the
Princeton Review, the test-preparation service.

IAC will still hold a majority stake in the dating business, rendering it a
''controlled company'' by regulatory standards.

Other elements of the stock offering, including how many shares Match will sell
and at what price, were not disclosed.

Match is set to be listed on the Nasdaq stock market, trading under the ticker
symbol MTCH.

Its offering will be led by JPMorgan Chase, Allen & Company and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/dealbook/online-dating-business-files
-to-go-public.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE DATING SERVICES (92%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC
OFFERINGS (90%); DATING SERVICES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES
(78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%)

COMPANY: IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE
& CO (66%); ALLEN & CO INC (66%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: IACI (NASDAQ) (93%); JPM (NYSE) (66%); JPM (LSE) (66%); NDAQ (NASDAQ)
(54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (93%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING
(93%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE
(91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE
(91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282
INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION
COMPANIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%);
NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (66%); NAICS522110
COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS523210
SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES
(54%)

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Delicate Dance With Debt

BYLINE: By JACK EWING; Niki Kitsantonis and Dimitris Bounias contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1528 words


ATHENS --  Apostolis Paliouras was proud of the bookstore he ran on the ground
floor of an apartment building in a middle-class neighborhood here. Greek
authors came to give readings and sign their works. People gathered to debate
matters literary and political.

But his sales plummeted in 2011 after the Greek government, bowing to demands
from its international creditors, imposed a new property tax and added it to
utility bills in an attempt to stem the country's notorious tax evasion. People
who did not pay risked having their power shut off. The tax crackdown crippled
consumer spending.

''People were buying books, and then they stopped,'' Mr. Paliouras, 63, recalled
recently. ''They just stopped.''

The tax problem quickly bled into another of Greece's economic afflictions. In
2012, Mr. Paliouras was forced to close the bookstore and, with his main source
of income gone, he was no longer able to meet mortgage payments on the home he
shares with his wife. And so he joined a group that has lately grown to
catastrophic proportions in Greece: loan delinquents.

Tens of thousands of Greek people and businesses are unable to make their loan
payments. So far, the bank has not started foreclosure proceedings, but Mr.
Paliouras worries that that could change under modifications the government is
considering to meet the terms of its new international bailout package.

Although dealing with delinquent loans is one of the biggest challenges facing
the government of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and the country's creditors, the
issue is so knotty that it was not included in the bundle of economic reforms
the Greek Parliament was debating this week. Instead, it will be taken up later.

Officially, more than 40 percent of loans issued by Greek banks are seriously in
arrears. By some estimates, the rate tops 50 percent, if loans that have gone
sour in recent months are included. That is one of the highest rates in the
world, and it has so weakened the Greek banking system that it raises doubts
about the country's ability to mount an economic recovery. (The comparable
figure in the United States is only 2 percent.)

Despite Greece's latest international bailout, worth as much as 86 billion euros
-- or about $98 billion -- the country cannot rebound if its banks are flailing.
The effects could be felt throughout the eurozone financial system and all the
way to Wall Street.

A big challenge for Greece is how to address the bad-loan problem in a way that
offers some hope to debtors like Mr. Paliouras, yet does not destroy the banking
system. That is why the government has deferred action on the issue for now.

In any case, longer-term solutions for resolving the bad loans will lie largely
with the European Central Bank, which is expected to complete an assessment of
the health of Greek banks by the end of October, then devise a recovery plan in
conjunction with the Greek authorities. Representatives of the largest Greek
banks were in Frankfurt this week to discuss the problem with central bank
officials.

Big American investors who are sharing the pain include the billionaires Wilbur
Ross and John Paulson, whose investment funds have made big bets on Greek banks,
along with Fidelity Investments and Capital Group. Those investors have already
suffered paper losses because of steep declines in the value of Greek bank
shares, and they could lose more if bad loans wipe out more bank capital.

The latest international aid package for Greece includes up to ?25 billion to
replenish the capital of Greek banks. According to rough estimates circulating
in Athens, banks might need only ?10 billion to ?15 billion in new capital --
essentially the banks' cushion against losses. But senior bankers in Athens
acknowledge that no one yet knows for sure how bad the loan losses will prove.

In any country, the number of bad loans will rise when recession causes
businesses to close and people to lose their jobs. But in Greece the effect has
been extreme, given the depth and duration of the economic slump.

What's more, bad loans are not only a symptom of recession but also a cause of
further economic malaise, tying up money that might otherwise be lent to
healthier companies. In Greece, about 40 percent of the bad loans are to small,
one-person businesses or midsize businesses such as fish farms or ferry
operators. Those smaller and midsize businesses are a critical source of jobs in
Greece, which has relatively few large corporations.

''A high level of nonperforming loans means a lot of resources are trapped in
unproductive parts of the economy,'' said Platon Monokroussos, deputy general
manager of Eurobank Ergasias, one of Greece's biggest banks.

And the cycle can feed on itself. Fears that banks would go bust from bad loans
were a main reason that Greeks drained their accounts en masse. Depositors
withdrew ?40 billion from December to July, forcing the government to place
restrictions on the amount of cash that Greeks could withdraw from their bank
accounts.

The restrictions, still in place though slightly relaxed, crimped consumer
spending, further slowing the economy and leading to more bad loans. The task
ahead for bankers and bank regulators is to break the vicious circle.

But doing so will be extremely difficult. Under pressure from creditors, the
Greek Parliament has already passed laws that will give Greek banks more power
to seize property and a speedier legal process for claims. Those changes were
meant to reduce the waiting time for court hearings, which had reached more than
a decade, and to spur debtors who might have the money to pay their loans but
don't bother because it has been so difficult for banks to foreclose.

Bankers say they will use the increased powers to work out payment plans with
debtors whenever possible, and that they have no interest in seizing property in
a depressed real estate market.

But debtors are suspicious, and they are numerous enough to form a powerful
constituency that adds a dash of volatility to Greece's already unstable
politics.

Stella Heliopoulou, president of an organization that represents bank debtors,
said that people asking banks for help are often offered new loans to pay off
the old ones, rather than a break on the debt.

Ms. Heliopoulou likened the behavior of the banks to eurozone creditors who are
lending the Greek government money to pay existing debts -- which is mainly what
the latest bailout plan is meant to do.

''What the creditors are doing to the country the banks are doing to the
citizens,'' she said, speaking in the small office in Athens, furnished with
little more than a table and an electric fan, that serves as her group's
headquarters.

Apostolis Panousopoulos, secretary general of the debtors' organization, said he
tried to negotiate with his bank to get easier terms on ?18,000 in debt he built
up on a credit line from his bank. The debt has an 18 percent interest rate. He
noted that Greek banks were able to borrow money from the European Central Bank
at interest rates of a little more than 1 percent.

''I personally went to the bank branch, and I got nothing,'' said Mr.
Panousopoulos, 67, who owned a small ceramics manufacturing company but is now
retired. He and his wife live on a pension of ?1,500 a month.

The European Central Bank, which has supervisory responsibility for Greek banks
and has been keeping them alive with emergency loans, has begun poring through
loan portfolios to determine just how bad the damage is. That is the first step
in determining how much capital banks need to remain viable.

The process is a delicate one. The bank cleanup must be tough enough to be
credible. ''Nonperforming loans have to be dealt with in order to restore
confidence in banks,'' as well as to reduce the burden on households and
businesses, said Anthimos Thomopoulos, the chief executive of Piraeus Bank,
another big Greek lender.

But Wall Street investors have been meeting with European Central Bank officials
to lobby them not to be too tough, if they want the banks to raise any more
capital from the private sector. Capital provided by the eurozone bailout fund,
via the Greek bank rescue authority, will dilute the value of existing bank
shares whose prices on the stock market have already plunged.

Mr. Ross, whose private equity fund based in New York has a stake in Eurobank,
said he would consider buying more shares, but only ''if institutional investors
are treated fairly.''

Some of Greece's bad loans will go away by themselves if the economy improves,
and people and businesses begin earning money to make payments. Growth was
better than expected in the second quarter, partly because of a strong tourist
season.

''The nonperforming loan problem is mostly due to the recession,'' Yannis
Stournaras, the governor of the Bank of Greece, the country's central bank, said
in an interview. With a cooperative effort by central banks, regulators and the
commercial banks, he said, ''it is a manageable problem.''

Mr. Paliouras, the former bookstore owner, finds it hard to be so sanguine.
''It's not going to end smoothly,'' he said. ''It permeates the whole society.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/dealbook/greeces-big-challenge-fix-ba
d-loans-without-destroying-banks.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shuttered shops in an arcade in central Athens where the
majority of businesses have closed since the beginning of the Greek financial
crisis.
 Apostolis Paliouras, a former owner of a bookstore. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGELOS
TZORTZINIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); BAILOUTS
(89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%);
LITERATURE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX
LAW (76%); FORECLOSURE (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (76%); TAX
ENFORCEMENT (76%); FOREIGN LENDING (76%); TAX FRAUD (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%);
ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC
RECOVERY (73%); EURO ZONE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%);
MONETARY UNIONS (64%); EURO (64%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%)

PERSON: ALEXIS TSIPRAS (79%)

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (93%)

COUNTRY: GREECE (96%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); UNITED
STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Goldman Sachs Fires 20 Junior Employees Accused of Test Cheating

BYLINE: By LIZ MOYER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 332 words


Landing a job as an analyst at Goldman Sachs is a golden ticket for a newcomer
to Wall Street. Now 20 of those who pulled off that feat are being dismissed for
cheating on an employee test, the firm says.

The 20 worked in the firm's securities division, which houses its trading
operations, in New York and in London, a person briefed on the matter said.

''This conduct was not just a clear violation of the rules, but completely
inconsistent with the values we foster at the firm,'' a Goldman spokesman,
Michael DuVally, said in an emailed statement.

Like other investment banks, Goldman recruits annually from university and
graduate school campuses, offering around 1,800 to 2,000 graduates spots in its
analyst class, which is the entry-level position for those dreaming of moving up
the corporate ranks. Tens of thousands of applicants compete for the slots, with
only about 3 to 4 percent accepted into the program in any given year.

On its website, Goldman says its analyst program is ''ideally suited to those
with little or no work experience,'' and that an applicant's school major is
less important than a record of academic achievement and interest in financial
markets. Goldman even invites applicants to take an online test to see where
they might fit in.

Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman's chairman and chief executive, has called his firm
an ''employer of choice'' for bright graduates seeking a career in finance.

Also like other investment banks, Goldman likes to test its employees from time
to time on their command of material related to their work or to compliance or
other regulatory matters.

The spokesman wouldn't elaborate on what kind of test was being administered in
this case or how the firm discovered the cheating, which was reported earlier by
Bloomberg News.

Goldman had 36,400 employees at the end of the third quarter in September,
according to its earnings release on Thursday, up 6 percent from the end of
June, reflecting recent campus hires, it said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/dealbook/goldman-sachs-fires-20-junio
r-employees-accused-of-test-cheating.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS
(89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SCHOOL CHEATING (77%);
GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); EXECUTIVES (68%); FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE &
REPORTS (61%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
(92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289
SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%);
SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION
COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

S.E.C. Releases Data on Fund Advisers

BYLINE: By LIZ MOYER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg.

LENGTH: 553 words


The Securities and Exchange Commission on Friday released its first set of
statistics on more than 2,600 private fund advisers as part of an effort to make
it easier for investors to evaluate them.

The data include information from regulatory filings by private advisers of
funds -- hedge funds and private equity funds -- with $150 million or more in
assets. The data, which are available on the agency's website, cover the first
quarter of 2013 through the fourth quarter of 2014.

''It is clear that both current and future rules must focus closely on how
threats to the financial system could impact our mandates of investor
protection, fair, orderly and efficient markets and facilitating capital
formation,'' Mary Jo White, the S.E.C. chairwoman, said Friday at a Manhattan
conference run by the Managed Funds Association, a hedge fund trade group.

The S.E.C.'s examination staff has been uncovering recurring issues, she said,
particularly in the area of fiduciary duty and fee disclosures.

Some advisers are having problems in marketing, with materials that have
unreliable performance numbers, or comparisons to benchmarks that don't make
crucial disclosures.

Some S.E.C. examiners found advisers who were moving profitable trades and
investment opportunities to their own proprietary funds rather than to client
accounts. They also found some advisers improperly shifting expenses to their
funds.

Ms. White said these instances revealed ''cracks'' in the bulwark of investor
protection. ''They also illustrate that investment advisers to funds, including
private funds catering to sophisticated investors, must disclose material facts
to clients,'' she said.

The president and chief executive of the Managed Funds Association, Richard
Baker, said in response that the private fund industry ''does not pose a
systemic or destabilizing threat, even during times of financial crisis.

''The S.E.C.'s most recent report provides additional support for this position
based on extensive industry data,'' he said.

Regulators began requiring funds to register and report details about their
funds after the financial crisis. Now their attention is turning to whether
there should be more protections from the possible risks the funds pose to the
financial system.

The S.E.C. statistics on private fund advisers use aggregated data. Some
highlights: The use of derivatives by funds rose to $14.8 trillion from $13.6
trillion, but derivatives made up a smaller portion of total net assets, 221
percent versus 256 percent. Out of 8,635 hedge funds, fewer than 100, with $70
billion in combined assets, use high-frequency trading strategies to manage at
least some assets.

Ms. White said she wanted feedback from the private fund industry on the
published report. ''The public availability of aggregated information should
help to address persistent questions, and to some degree misconceptions, about
the practices and size of the private fund industry,'' she said.

There are 24,725 funds that fall under the private fund category, including
hedge and private equity funds. Some of the biggest investors in them are
individuals, pension plans and nonprofit organizations. The agency plans to
release the aggregate statistics ''periodically,'' though it hasn't decided
whether that will be quarterly or annually.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/dealbook/sec-releases-data-on-fund-ad
visers.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS
(90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); DERIVATIVE
INSTRUMENTS (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS
(78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); STATISTICS (78%);
ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%)

PERSON: MARY JO WHITE (79%); RICHARD BAKER (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Alibaba's Bid for Youku Tudou Could Be Win-Win

BYLINE: By JOHN FOLEY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg.

LENGTH: 377 words


What may soon be streaming at the Chinese video site Youku Tudou are tears of
relief.

Alibaba, China's biggest e-commerce company, has offered to buy the 82 percent
of Youku that it doesn't already own, at a 30 percent premium to the market
price. A deal would end Youku's unprofitable run as a public company and help
Alibaba realize its multiscreen strategy. The move should also create value.
Though that bit is most likely an afterthought.

Youku is the dominant force in Chinese online video -- effectively the YouTube
of the People's Republic. Like YouTube, it has never reported a profit. Aside
from advertising fees, Youku is now charging users to watch its best content,
but that means giving them something worth watching.

The fees Youku paid for content increased 78 percent over the last year to 744
million renminbi, or about $117 million, in the latest quarter. Larger rivals
like Baidu, a search engine that also owns an online video site, can swallow
those costs with ease. That's not the case for tiny Youku.

It may seem petty to consider whether the deal creates value for Alibaba
shareholders, but, as it happens, it probably does. The 30 percent premium is
worth around $1.2 billion. Yet Youku's bandwidth costs alone -- what it pays for
telecoms and data storage -- are an annualized $213 million. If the data
colossus Alibaba can eliminate those, the savings, taxed at Youku's 15 percent
rate and capitalized, are worth more than $1.8 billion.

Beyond that, the benefits of the deal are fairly abstract. Perhaps Alibaba will
create a Chinese answer to Netflix. Perhaps it will sell more video advertising
spots to its online merchants. Alibaba and Youku may even be able to use data
about shoppers' online habits to create programming relevant to their
activities.

But really, who cares? Youku is less than 3 percent of the combined companies'
market value. And approval is more than likely a given, since almost 60 percent
of the shares are held by Alibaba and its supporters, such as Victor Koo, a
Youku founder, who will also receive an undisclosed package for staying on as
chairman.

John Foley is Reuters Breakingviews editor for Europe, the Middle East and
Africa. For more independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/dealbook/alibabas-bid-for-youku-tudou
-could-be-win-win.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (90%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL
NETWORKING (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); BANDWIDTH (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE
(78%); PRICES (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%);
SHAREHOLDERS (66%)

COMPANY: YOUKU TOUDU INC (92%); TUDOU HOLDINGS LTD (92%); ALIBABA GROUP HOLDING
LTD (92%); NETFLIX INC (58%)

TICKER: YOKU (NYSE) (92%); BABA (NYSE) (92%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); NAICS519130
INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS454111
ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (92%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (58%); SIC7841
VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (58%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (91%); MIDDLE EAST (71%); EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alibaba in Deal for Full Control of Chinese Video Site

BYLINE: By PAUL MOZUR

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 523 words


HONG KONG --  The Alibaba Group said on Friday that it had offered to pay about
$3.6 billion to buy the Chinese video site Youku Tudou, continuing a streak of
investments and buyouts.

But Alibaba is most likely less interested in Youku Tudou's finances -- it lost
money in 2014 and in the first half of 2015 -- than it is in the number of users
it attracts.

Youku Tudou, a cross between YouTube and Netflix, draws more than 500 million
people each month to the movies and TV shows it licenses and produces, in
addition to user-generated videos.

In a news release on Friday, Alibaba said it had offered to pay $26.60 for each
Youku Tudou share it did not already own, a 30 percent premium over Youku
Tudou's closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday. In 2014,
Alibaba spent $1.2 billion for an 18 percent stake in Youku Tudou.

During a conference call on Friday, Alibaba's executive vice chairman, Joseph
Tsai, said that the closer cooperation with Youku Tudou in the year since
Alibaba made a strategic investment in the company persuaded Alibaba to take it
over.

In particular, Mr. Tsai said the two companies were able to learn more about
users by linking up viewing patterns in Youku and shopping patterns on Alibaba,
which could help Alibaba create more valuable advertising products.

''Without owning the company entirely, a lot of these cooperations are only
partial; we're not able to get the entire data sets,'' Mr. Tsai said.

He added that ownership of Youku Tudou also helps Alibaba attract a
predominantly younger generation of users who watch Youku's content on their
mobile phones and tablets. Although Alibaba's online shopping applications are
popular on smartphones, the company has not made as much revenue off mobile
advertisements as it has off those for the PC.

Youku Tudou, which was created by the merger of two of China's earliest online
video giants, has struggled to make money despite its large number of viewers.
In part, its problems stem from competition from sites backed by Baidu and
Tencent, both of which have raised bids for the licensing fees of popular
television shows. Online video advertising also pays little in China compared
with Western markets.

With complete control of Youku Tudou, Alibaba would be able to add that company
to its Alimama advertising network and to push Youku Tudou users -- a majority
of whom are on smartphones -- to its e-commerce sites. Youku Tudou also fits in
with a broader Alibaba initiative of growing its entertainment offerings.

Although Alibaba's stock price soared after its initial public offering last
year, the company has recently stumbled, missing investor expectations with its
most recent earnings statement. With a slowdown in Chinese growth and a sluggish
increase in the number of Internet users in the country, Alibaba's share price
has dropped to $71.81, just slightly higher than its initial public offering
price of $68.

This year, Alibaba paid about $4.6 billion to take a 20 percent stake in the
struggling consumer electronics retailer Suning, in large part to take advantage
of the company's countrywide logistics network.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/dealbook/alibaba-youku-tudou-offer.ht
ml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); SMARTPHONES (86%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%);
INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); MOBILE MEDIA (78%); USER GENERATED CONTENT
(78%); PHOTO & VIDEO SHARING (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); MERGERS
(77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%);
TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (71%);
TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); INTERNET RETAILING (70%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (70%);
STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR
TELEPHONES (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (67%)

COMPANY: YOUKU TOUDU INC (92%); TUDOU HOLDINGS LTD (92%); ALIBABA GROUP HOLDING
LTD (92%); NETFLIX INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

TICKER: YOKU (NYSE) (92%); BABA (NYSE) (92%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); NAICS519130
INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS454111
ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (92%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841
VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (57%)

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 117 words


An article on Thursday about Mayor Bill de Blasio's trip to Israel misattributed
two quotations about his plans. It was Rabbi Joseph Potasnik, executive vice
president of the New York Board of Rabbis -- not Michael S. Miller, chief
executive of the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York -- who said that
the mayor's plan to visit a school in Jerusalem was ''acceptable.'' And it was
Rabbi Potasnik -- not Mr. Miller -- who said, ''I think right now we need a
positive step coming from Ramallah.'' The article also described incorrectly
President Obama's visits to Israel. While he visited the West Bank, he did not
do so ''during formal visits to Israel.'' The West Bank is not part of Israel.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); MAYORS (88%); RELIGION (87%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

On the Afghanistan Troop Reversal

BYLINE: By PATRICK CHAPPATTE.

Patrick Chappatte is an editorial cartoonist for The International New York
Times. View more of his work, visit his website or follow him on Twitter.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg.

LENGTH: 34 words


President Obama halted the withdrawal of American military forces from
Afghanistan this week.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/opinion/on-the-afghanistan-troop-reversal.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%)

COUNTRY: AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Business Briefing; CBS Rejects Ads for Film on Flawed Report

BYLINE: By JOHN KOBLIN; Sydney Ember contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 334 words


CBS is refusing to run advertisements for ''Truth,'' the new movie about a 2004
''60 Minutes II'' segment on George W. Bush's service in the National Guard. The
network later said the segment should never have aired.

CBS rejected an ad from Sony Pictures Classics on Sept. 28, said Sheri Callan,
the president of Callan Advertising, the firm buying advertising time for the
movie.

The movie, which was released on Friday, has been a source of frustration for
CBS. ''Truth'' portrays the reporting behind -- and the unraveling of -- a
segment based on documents that suggested Mr. Bush got preferential treatment
for his National Guard service in the early 1970s.

Twelve days after the story was broadcast, in the heat of the 2004 presidential
election, CBS said it could not authenticate the documents and apologized. Mary
Mapes, the producer of the segment and the author of the book that the movie is
based on, was fired. Three other producers resigned. And Dan Rather, who was the
correspondent on the piece, announced that he was retiring as CBS's evening news
anchor two months later.

Mr. Rather and Ms. Mapes acknowledged there were flaws in their reporting but
still defend the story. The network said this week that the film had ''too many
distortions, evasions and baseless conspiracy theories to enumerate them all.''

Ms. Mapes's book suggests that Viacom, CBS's corporate parent at the time,
buckled to pressure from the Bush administration when it withdrew its support
for the segment, and the movie at times addresses that line of thinking.

Thus far, commercials for the movie have run nationally on 13 television
networks, including NBC, TBS, ABC, CNN and Fox News, according to the
measurement firm iSpot.tv. About half of the studio's spending has gone to NBC,
where the trailer ran during ''The Tonight Show'' and ''Today.''

News of CBS's decision was first reported by The Associated Press.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/media/cbs-refuses-ads-for-truth-film-
about-a-60-minutes-ii-segment.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION
(89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (79%); BROADCAST
ADVERTISING (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); WRITERS
(74%); ELECTIONS (72%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS
(71%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); VIACOM INC (54%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING
(54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Spending Spree Is Clinton's Bet on the Future

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE, MAGGIE HABERMAN and SARAH COHEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1391 words


Hillary Rodham Clinton has spent more than twice as much as any other
presidential candidate on campaign staff, more than three times as much on
office space and millions of dollars more on advertising, according to reports
filed this week with the Federal Election Commission.

Three months before the first nominating contest, Mrs. Clinton has built a
cash-hungry campaign juggernaut that is more far-flung and more expensive than
anything else on the horizon.

The goal is to overwhelm her rivals for the Democratic nomination -- including
those who are still considering a bid -- before the first flowers of spring, and
to amass an organizational advantage that no Republican rival will be able to
match by Election Day.

Mrs. Clinton's aides say they have learned their lessons from the 2008 campaign,
when she larded her campaign with highly paid consultants and ultimately
succumbed to a rival with surprising financial strength and superior
organization. This time, they say, Mrs. Clinton was spending heavily to build an
unparalleled campaign infrastructure that could quickly morph into a general
election machine.

''You can't just parachute into a state at the last minute and hope to build a
campaign overnight,'' Mrs. Clinton's campaign manager, Robby Mook, said in an
email. ''That's why we made smart early investments in data, analytics, tech,
digital and on-the-ground organizing to build a strong, sturdy campaign designed
to fight for and earn every vote in every state.''

But the filings also reveal the size of the gamble Mrs. Clinton is taking. After
a record-breaking spring on the fund-raising circuit, her cash intake over the
summer barely kept pace with her spending, a reflection of the sheer cost of
maintaining the largest campaign infrastructure in either party.

''I think these are very smart investments for them,'' said Robert Shrum, a
longtime Democratic strategist who advised John Kerry's 2004 presidential
campaign. ''But it is premised on one thing: that they can keep up the
fund-raising pace.''

Mrs. Clinton has more than $31 million on hand for the primary, a sizable
cushion even if her cash flow does not improve in the next quarter. But her
financial advantage over her closest rival for the Democratic nomination,
Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, is quickly evaporating. Mr. Sanders, who has
so far focused on building an organization in New Hampshire and Iowa, now
appears well positioned to compete against her in both states.

Financed almost entirely by a network of small donors making repeated donations,
Mr. Sanders is now moving to build an organization for later contests in states
like Nevada, where Mrs. Clinton's team is already well established.

Reports filed by the Republican campaigns this week present a wealth of warnings
about the risks of early spending that is not supported by strong fund-raising.
Like Mrs. Clinton, Jeb Bush said he was planning to build for the long haul.
Bolstered by a burst of intense fund-raising in early June, his campaign built
an expansive operation, with seven field offices and almost 30 paid staff
members in Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada, along with a database
with detailed profiles of targeted voters in those states, according to his
campaign.

But such an operation is expensive: The Bush campaign reported that it had spent
four out of every five dollars it raised in the previous three months, while
raising far less than it had earlier.

''Any campaign that is legitimately seeking the presidency must be able to
compete with the Democrats,'' said Danny Diaz, Mr. Bush's campaign manager, in a
memo the campaign sent to supporters, seeking to explain its spending. ''There
are very few G.O.P. campaigns committed to building a real infrastructure, and
among those we are confident ours is best in class.''

Mr. Bush helped raise more than $100 million earlier in the year for the ''Super
PAC'' backing him, Right to Rise, which in turn subsidized his exploratory
expenses and employed staff for his campaign-in-waiting for months. But when Mr.
Bush formally entered the presidential race in June -- and was required to begin
paying campaign expenses with contributions capped at $2,700 -- the transition
was jarring. Disclosures with the Federal Election Commission show that Mr. Bush
was forced to cut salaries for dozens of campaign staff members over the summer
after his fund-raising failed to keep pace with spending.

Some candidates did even worse. Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, who formally
entered the race in July, dropped out barely two months later, unable to raise
enough money to support his campaign, which had a large and well-paid staff:
Several senior aides were on track to earn more than $200,000 a year, F.E.C.
filings show.

Mr. Bush began the fall with about as much cash on hand for the primary as one
of his main rivals, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida. As other Republican
candidates experienced, Mr. Rubio's cash intake collapsed over the summer. His
operational costs -- including payroll, field consulting, advertising and office
expenses -- appeared significantly lower than Mr. Bush's, according to F.E.C.
disclosures.

Compounding the difficulties for the Republicans was Donald J. Trump, the real
estate mogul and television star, whose command of Twitter and knack for earning
free media have allowed him to reach a large audience while spending relatively
little.

Mr. Trump has led the Republican field in most polls despite employing only 40
paid staff members, including hiring state directors in Alabama, Florida and
Texas since the ending of the last disclosure period. Mr. Trump has spent more
on hats and T-shirts -- about $678,000 -- during the three months ending Sept.
30 than he did on field staff and offices in Iowa, New Hampshire and South
Carolina, where those expenses totaled just $353,363, or on advertising, voter
list rentals and campaign materials.

''We are a real campaign,'' said Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump's campaign
manager. ''If you look at the models where campaigns staff up and overpay, that
model doesn't seem to work so well, either in past campaigns or in the current
one.''

Mrs. Clinton is raising far more for her campaign than any Republican candidate.
And she is dominating national polls in the Democratic race, even as the
Republicans whom her campaign believes are her likeliest opponents in a general
election fall in polls behind Mr. Trump and Ben Carson, a retired neurosurgeon
and political novice. Mr. Bush, despite his spending, remains in the single
digits in most national polls. Mr. Rubio is not much higher. Other Republican
and Democratic candidates, such as former Gov. Martin O'Malley of Maryland, Gov.
Chris Christie of New Jersey and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, are even further
behind in polls, fund-raising or both.

Mr. Sanders's aides decided over the summer to test how much they could raise
online. It quickly became clear that the sums would be significant, according to
Jeff Weaver, his campaign manager, and Mr. Sanders rapidly expanded his
organization. His team had 28 staff members at the end of June, and 132 by the
end of September. Now, they believe they are better prepared to keep raising
money from their donor base than Mrs. Clinton is with hers.

''We feel like we're in as good a position as anybody in Iowa, New Hampshire,
South Carolina, Nevada,'' Mr. Weaver said. ''There's not anybody that has a
better case to make than us.''

But while Mrs. Clinton invested in infrastructure early, the F.E.C. filings
show, Mr. Sanders only recently sent a few paid staff members to Nevada, and he
has no office there. He has yet to spend anything on television ads.

And Mr. Sanders's organization is far smaller than the one Mr. Obama had built
by the same point in 2007, when he was a senator making his first White House
run. Mr. Obama had 631 paid staff members by the fall of 2007, more than four
times as many as Mr. Sanders has now.

To beat Mrs. Clinton, as Mr. Obama did, Mr. Shrum said, Mr. Sanders will need to
grow quickly. ''You can't just do it with social media,'' he said. ''You've got
to have people on the ground in those early states.''

Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get
politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/us/politics/filings-reveal-hillary-clinton-lea
ds-money-race.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hillary Rodham Clinton in Keene, N.H., on Friday. She has far
outspent all presidential candidates on campaign infrastructure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
IAN THOMAS JANSEN-LONNQUIST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Jeb Bush in Iowa last week. His campaign spent four out of every five dollars
it raised in the three months ending Sept. 30. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT
MORGAN/REUTERS) (A14) CHARTS: How Much the Presidential Candidates Have Raised
and Spent: On Thursday, candidates filed reports with the Federal Election
Commission on their finances through Sept. 30. The filings paint only a partial
picture, however, because most outside groups supporting the candidates, like
''super PACs,'' will not submit their latest figures until Jan. 31. (Sources:
Federal Election Commission, campaigns, news reports) (A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%);
ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES
(90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); US
REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US FEDERAL
ELECTIONS (78%); CASH FLOW (76%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (72%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (91%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BERNIE SANDERS (79%);
JEB BUSH (58%)

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama: Some Driver's License Sites to Reopen

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTH; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 126 words


After a national outcry, Gov. Robert Bentley announced on Friday that 31
part-time driver's license locations across the state that had been closed
because of budget cuts would reopen once a month. Before the closings, examiners
would travel to the locations, in rural counties, one to three times a week to
give driving tests and issue licenses. Politicians and civil rights advocates
said that the closings would have made it harder for people to obtain photo
identification required for voting, and that eight of the 10 counties with the
largest numbers of black registered voters were affected. The governor had
insisted that free voter IDs could still be obtained in all of the counties, and
blamed the legislature's budget decisions for the closings.

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRIVERS LICENSES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (88%);
LICENSES & PERMITS (88%); BUDGET CUTS (87%); COUNTIES (87%); BUDGETS (87%);
VOTERS & VOTING (86%); POLITICS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS
(69%)

PERSON: ROBERT BENTLEY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tapes Portray a Coal Baron Lax on Safety

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1524 words


CHARLESTON, W.Va. --  Back when he was one of the most powerful and feared men
in West Virginia, before a coal mine explosion killed 29 of his employees and
exposed his company's shoddy safety record, Donald L. Blankenship was seen as an
arrogant, micromanaging bully. Even his lawyer says he was ''rude and
insulting.''

But in the end, another of his qualities -- his penchant for secretly recording
his own conversations -- may help bring Mr. Blankenship down.

Mr. Blankenship is the former chairman and chief executive of Massey Energy,
whose Upper Big Branch mine became, in April 2010, the site of the nation's
deadliest coal mining disaster in nearly 40 years. Now on trial in federal court
here, he is the first coal baron ever to face criminal charges -- the central
character, prosecutors say, in a historic case of conspiracy to flout health and
safety laws in pursuit of profits.

Defense lawyers say they will prove that Mr. Blankenship was deeply concerned
with mine safety, and that he had committed no ''willful violations'' of safety
laws, as the government asserts.

Mr. Blankenship's rise and fall are the stuff of legend in Appalachia. Raised in
a poor county, he built Massey from a family-owned company into an industry
behemoth that operated more than 150 mines and brought in $2.6 billion in
revenue. As prosecutors make their case against him, they have so far played 19
snippets from hundreds of hours of Mr. Blankenship's secret audio files, which
were turned over by the company that acquired Massey after the blast.

The tapes offer a peek into the mind of a man seemingly consumed with his own
wealth and frustrated with federal regulators and company officials who pushed
for more attention to safety. The prosecution hopes to offer three more
recordings, but on Thursday, defense lawyers asked Judge Irene C. Berger, who is
presiding over the case, to block them.

In one conversation, Mr. Blankenship complains that Massey's top safety official
is too concerned with ''the social aspects'' of her job: ''You've got to have
someone who actually understands that this game is about money.'' In another, he
frets over a confidential internal safety memo -- central to the prosecution's
case -- that warned, among other things, of poor ventilation at mines and said
Massey was ''plainly cheating'' in sampling coal dust, a health hazard and a
fire accelerant.

He worries how things will look if Massey is sued. ''If that was a fatal today,
or if we had one,'' Mr. Blankenship says, an apparent reference to an accident,
''it'd be a terrible document to be in discovery.''

Discussing inspectors from the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration, he
complains that they pay too much attention to black lung disease, caused by
excessive coal dust exposure. (Autopsies would find that 71 percent of the 29
miners killed at Upper Big Branch suffered from black lung, compared with an
industry average of 3.2 percent, according to a 2011 state inquiry that
attributed the blast to ''a failure of basic coal mine safety practices.'')

''The truth of the matter,'' Mr. Blankenship is heard saying, ''is black lung is
not an issue in this industry that is worth the effort they put into it.''

The recordings also reveal Mr. Blankenship's clashes with Massey's compensation
committee over a $12 million pay package for him that included stock options.
''I said, 'You can't go to the grocery store and buy groceries with options,'''
he tells a woman he was dating, after remarking that he was glad she liked the
flowers he had sent.

Mr. Blankenship, 65, faces up to 31 years in prison on three felony counts,
including conspiracy to violate mine safety standards and hide hazards from
federal inspectors, lying to securities regulators and misleading investors
about safety practices in an effort to maintain Massey's stock price -- and his
fortune.

He has denied any wrongdoing.

That he is being prosecuted at all is stunning, given his political clout in a
state with a long, sordid history of coal-mine tragedies, stretching back to at
least the late 1800s. He spent $5 million to elect one State Supreme Court
justice, which prompted a documentary film labeling him ''The Kingmaker,'' and
he was photographed on the French Riviera with another. Both later voted to
throw out a $50 million jury verdict against Massey.

''Politicians, Democrats and Republicans, flocked to Blankenship,'' said Patrick
McGinley, a law professor at West Virginia University who contributed to the
state inquiry. ''He was viewed by many as untouchable, just like all the other
corporate executives of coal companies that killed scores or hundreds or
thousands of miners over the last century.''

Prosecutors say that Mr. Blankenship was involved in the minutest details of
life at Upper Big Branch, informed nearly every day of safety violations there,
and that he had overruled managers who wanted to fix safety problems, demanding
instead that they step up production and ''run coal.''

David Hughart -- a former high-level Massey executive who is serving a 42-month
prison term connected to the 2010 disaster -- testified to that effect this
week, telling jurors he had approved safety shortcuts under ''pressure to run,
produce coal.'' Mr. Hughart is one of four employees who have been convicted in
connection with an investigation that followed the explosion.

Defense lawyers have countered with, among other things, Mr. Blankenship's
handwritten notes; he shunned computers. In one note, he approved purchases of
safety equipment; in another, he berated underlings for not moving fast enough
on a plan to reduce violations.

''The only thing more frightening to our future than regulators is us,'' Mr.
Blankenship wrote.

The defense also contends that Mr. Blankenship was far removed from daily life
at Upper Big Branch. But Michael B. Hissam, who worked on the early stages of
the mine investigation as a federal prosecutor and now represents coal-industry
clients, said the audiotapes ''are the answer to the busy C.E.O. defense,''
because they ''show Don Blankenship having hands-on micromanagement
involvement.''

Mr. Blankenship's recordings are ''a gift he gave to the families'' of the dead
miners, said Judy Jones Petersen, a Charleston doctor whose brother Dean Jones,
a mine foreman, was killed. ''The jury gets an opportunity to hear this snively
character whining about his stock options,'' she said. ''It's rather pathetic.''

The trial has also painted a grim portrait of conditions at Upper Big Branch,
where rough-hewn miners working miles underground often feared for their safety.
Several testified that they had been tipped off, in code language by superiors,
when federal inspectors were on the way and been told to hastily fix violations.

One former miner, Brent Racer, described hearing the president of the Massey
subsidiary that operated Upper Big Branch hassling a mine boss who tried to
improve ventilation, telling him, '''We would get more air soon, and we needed
to worry about running.'''

Another, Gary Young, worked the overnight shift as a ''rock duster'' spreading
limestone dust, a protective coating to hold down coal dust and prevent
explosions. He told the jury that his equipment was often broken, and his shifts
often truncated. Frustrated, he kept a journal to communicate with his manager.
His last entry, two weeks before the blast, read, ''I'm set up to fail.''

Defense lawyers have not said whether Mr. Blankenship will testify, but at
court, he cuts an awkward figure. Accompanied by a team of Washington lawyers,
he arrives each morning carrying a slightly battered black briefcase and walks,
tight-lipped, past television cameras and reporters asking questions. During a
break the other day, he sat by himself on a bench outside the courtroom.

He is not without supporters. Shannon Westerman, 77, a retired business owner
who worked with Massey on a coal safety awareness program, turned up in court
the other day to shake Mr. Blankenship's hand.

''I think this is a political and media effort to destroy him,'' Mr. Westerman
said.

Coal mining has long been the lifeblood of the economy here, and many of the
families who lost loved ones in the blast have deep roots in the industry.

Gary Quarles, a retired miner whose son, Gary Wayne Quarles, 33, died in the
blast, was a miner himself. He and his wife, Patty, who has a tattoo on her left
ankle of her son wearing his black miner's hard hat, have been attending the
proceedings.

The trial began last week; it is expected to run into November. By the end, Mr.
Quarles said, the public will ''see what kind of man Don really is.''

Five years after losing their son, the couple would like to see Mr. Blankenship
convicted. But seeing him in court -- surrounded by lawyers, listening to
himself referred to as ''the defendant'' -- is a kind of satisfaction in itself.

''To me, his privileges are gone,'' Mrs. Quarles said. ''As of right now, he
can't go to the Riviera. He can't go to Vegas like he wanted to. He now is at
someplace he's never been, and that's being controlled by other people. He's not
used to that.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/us/coal-barons-trial-may-turn-on-his-secretly-
recorded-conversations.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Donald L. Blankenship, left, exiting the courthouse in
Charleston, W.Va., on Oct. 1, the first day of jury selection in his trial.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER EVERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 A Whitesville, W.Va., resident took a walk past the memorial to the 29 miners
who were killed in a 2010 mine explosion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TY WRIGHT FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (A3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); MINES & MINING (90%);
MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); COAL MINING (90%); LAWYERS (89%); MINE
SAFETY REGULATION (89%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (89%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%);
WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY
AGENCIES (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); COMPANY
STRUCTURES & OWNERSHIP (77%); LITIGATION (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%);
CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); JURY
DUTY (69%); COUNTIES (66%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: MASSEY ENERGY CO (92%); ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES INC (57%)

TICKER: FLR (FRA) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); NAICS212111
BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL
UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%)

CITY: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (93%)

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Clinton Aide Testifies Before Benghazi Panel

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 758 words


WASHINGTON --  Huma Abedin, Hillary Rodham Clinton's longtime personal aide,
testified behind closed doors for eight hours on Friday before the
Republican-controlled Benghazi committee, as Mrs. Clinton and House Democrats
continued to try to discredit the panel for what they say are efforts to
undermine her presidential bid.

Ms. Abedin said in a brief news conference that she had answered all of the
committee's questions, but she declined to address what she said and did not
criticize the panel.

But Mrs. Clinton's campaign and the committee's top Democrat were far more vocal
than Ms. Abedin, arguing that the committee had veered away from its
investigation of the 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya, and focused instead on
Mrs. Clinton's unorthodox email arrangement when she was secretary of state.

Shortly before she began testifying on Friday morning, the Clinton campaign
released a statement saying it was not clear why the committee wanted to
question Ms. Abedin, because she knew little about the attacks.

''The committee's focus on Huma (as opposed to numerous intelligence and defense
community officials still outstanding) is additional evidence that the actual
attack in Benghazi, and its lessons about how we might better protect diplomats
serving in dangerous places, are the last things on the committee's mind,'' a
campaign spokesman, Nick Merrill, said in the statement.

A Republican member of the committee, Representative Mike Pompeo of Kansas, who
attended the interview, said the panel needed to question Ms. Abedin because she
was a senior State Department official at the time of the attacks, which killed
four Americans.

The committee's top Democrat, Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland,
gave a lengthy statement to reporters, citing remarks made this month by
Republicans -- including one by the House majority leader, Kevin McCarthy of
California -- who said the panel was designed to undermine Mrs. Clinton.

''When you have the No. 2 person in the Republican Party who comes forward --
the person who makes plans with the speaker, and the person who is one step away
from becoming the speaker -- to tell you it's all about a taxpayer-funded
political effort to derail the campaign of Hillary Clinton, ladies and
gentlemen, that is a problem,'' Mr. Cummings said.

Mrs. Clinton is scheduled to testify in a public hearing before the panel on
Thursday.

The committee's chairman, Representative Trey Gowdy of South Carolina, who has
attended many of the interviews conducted with Mrs. Clinton's closest aides, was
not in Washington on Friday and did not address the news media.

A day earlier, Mr. Gowdy found himself on the defensive after Representative
Richard Hanna, a moderate Republican from upstate New York, told a Utica radio
station that Mr. McCarthy had told the truth when he said that a drop in Mrs.
Clinton's poll numbers had been a result of the committee's work.

''Sometimes the biggest sin you can commit in D.C. is to tell the truth,'' Mr.
Hanna told the radio station. ''This may not be politically correct, but I think
that there was a big part of this investigation that was designed to go after
people and an individual, Hillary Clinton.''

Mr. Gowdy released a statement on Thursday saying that ''commentators, and
sometimes even members of your own conference, offer thoughts on which they are
not familiar.''

''It is unfortunate when claims are made by those who do not know what the
committee has done, why it has done it, or the results of its work,'' he said.

Mr. Gowdy said that Republicans had ''made a promise to the families about the
integrity of this investigation, and no one on the majority side has forgotten
it.''

An hour before he released that statement, his office put out a news release
that announced that Ms. Abedin was scheduled to testify at 10 a.m. on Friday.

The release said that Ms. Abedin would ''be questioned about issues pertaining
to the committee's charter: the events leading up to, during and after the
attacks on U.S. facilities in Benghazi, Libya, on September 11, 2012, and
executive branch activities and efforts to comply with congressional inquiries
into them.''

The release then said that the committee's charter did not include two matters
surrounding Mrs. Clinton's campaign: the Clinton Foundation and Ms. Abedin's
special employment status, which allowed her to work for outside companies.

Follow the New York Times's politics and Washington coverage on Facebook and
Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/us/politics/huma-abedin-longtime-clinton-aide-
testifies-before-house-benghazi-committee.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Huma Abedin, center, a longtime aide to Hillary Rodham Clinton,
arrived for a meeting with the House Benghazi panel on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES 2016 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS
(90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERVIEWS (88%); PUBLIC HEARINGS
(77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); ELIJAH E CUMMINGS (79%); MIKE POMPEO
(57%); RICHARD HANNA (57%); KEVIN MCCARTHY (57%); TREY GOWDY (57%)

CITY: BENGHAZI, LIBYA (93%); UTICA, NY, USA (70%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

On Second Thought, de Blasio Likes Mike, Sort Of

BYLINE: By ALEXANDER BURNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1399 words


As a candidate for mayor, Bill de Blasio sought to differentiate himself from
Michael R. Bloomberg in every way possible, vowing to turn the page on what he
cast as an autocratic billionaire's 12-year reign.

But as Mr. de Blasio, a liberal Democrat, approaches the midpoint of his own
term as mayor of New York City, he has executed an abrupt and deliberate shift
in posture.

Over the last month, Mr. de Blasio has repeatedly hailed Mr. Bloomberg, a
political independent, as a champion for the city, doing so in unsolicited and
sometimes unexpected ways. He applauded Mr. Bloomberg for his ''vision and for
the energy'' spent in expanding the No. 7 subway line; he credited him for a
hard-fought victory in winning mayoral control of the public schools; and he
even took to Twitter to defend him against the National Rifle Association.

The timing of Mr. de Blasio's overtures is no accident: The mayor and his
advisers have increasingly come to see the rift between Mr. de Blasio and Mr.
Bloomberg as a damaging and unnecessary political liability -- especially at a
time when Mr. de Blasio's clashes with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a fellow Democrat,
have hurt his ability to push through important pieces of his agenda.

Mr. de Blasio and his aides have brainstormed ways to repair the relationship
with Mr. Bloomberg, according to advisers to both men, some of whom spoke on the
condition of anonymity because the relationship between the two camps remains
uncertain and strained.

Mr. de Blasio appears to have grown more acutely mindful of areas where his
agenda overlaps with Mr. Bloomberg's legacy: his aim to extend mayoral control
of schools, for instance, and, recently, holding out to extract more concessions
from state government in a deal on mass transit funding. Facing resistance from
Mr. Cuomo on both fronts, Mr. de Blasio has repeatedly invoked Mr. Bloomberg's
name and record in his public sparring with the governor.

In the most symbolically laden indication of a peacemaking effort, City Hall has
invited Mr. Bloomberg to participate in a tree-planting ceremony with Mr. de
Blasio this month, celebrating the Million Tree Initiative that started under
Mr. Bloomberg, advisers said.

Mr. Bloomberg is expected to attend the event, where the millionth new tree is
to be planted.

Phil Walzak, a senior adviser to Mr. de Blasio, described City Hall's shifting
attitude toward Mr. Bloomberg as part of a natural evolution from campaigning to
governing. If there are ''areas to forge stronger bonds'' with Mr. Bloomberg,
Mr. Walzak said, ''that's good for everybody.''

''Campaigns are always in yes or no, black and white terms; governing offers
better and more opportunities for coming together on issues,'' Mr. Walzak said.
''This mayor wants to have an expansive portfolio of issues that speak to a lot
of New Yorkers.''

While Mr. Bloomberg remains a figure of controversy within the Democratic base,
he commands deep respect in communities where Mr. de Blasio has struggled: among
upscale Manhattanites and white voters in general, and with business leaders and
philanthropic organizations. Leaders in the city's business and financial
community privately prodded Mr. de Blasio for many months to seek a
reconciliation with the former mayor. But only recently has Mr. de Blasio taken
up the advice.

Now when the mayor acknowledges his predecessor, it is no longer with an
insistent disclaimer that he and Mr. Bloomberg disagree on a host of important
issues. And where Mr. de Blasio might once have parceled out measures of credit
to Mr. Bloomberg, on several specific policies, the mayor has now begun to
applaud his predecessor in broad terms.

During the Republican presidential debate last month, members of Mr. de Blasio's
digital team noticed an N.R.A. commercial swiping at the former mayor and
flagged it for senior mayoral aides.

Mr. de Blasio quickly proclaimed solidarity. ''Looks like @nra is still scared
of @MikeBloomberg,'' the mayor wrote on Twitter. ''New Yorkers still back common
sense laws that keep guns out of the wrong hands.''

The post, Mr. Walzak said, was meant to ''send a broader message that politics
does stop at the water's edge -- that issues and values do trump politics.''

Mr. Bloomberg's aides have called his attention to Mr. de Blasio's warmer
comments, and the former mayor was said to appreciate the adjustment. The two
men have exchanged pleasantries at public events, but they have no direct
personal relationship to speak of, and contact between the two mayors comes in
the form of back-channel conversations between their associates.

The most critical line of communication, advisers said, has run between Howard
Wolfson, the Bloomberg adviser and former deputy mayor, and Emma Wolfe, Mr. de
Blasio's director of intergovernmental affairs, who has been an energetic
advocate for mending fences with Mr. Bloomberg.

Of Mr. de Blasio's public overtures, Mr. Wolfson said that ''compliments and
kind words are always appreciated.'' But he cautioned that Mr. Bloomberg had no
intention of directly re-engaging with local politics.

''Mayor Bloomberg made it clear that he wasn't going to be involved in New York
City politics after leaving City Hall,'' Mr. Wolfson said. ''Mayor Bloomberg is
proud of his record and his legacy, but it's up to voters and the leaders they
elect to set a course for the city going forward.''

Mr. de Blasio has not abandoned any of his core disagreements with Mr. Bloomberg
in the course of wooing the former mayor and his community of admirers. The
mayor has continued to press for police reform and has spoken out aggressively
on issues of economic inequality, often assailing the behavior of Wall Street
firms that Mr. Bloomberg vigorously defended.

Still, Mr. de Blasio's sustained praise for Mr. Bloomberg in recent weeks
represents a stark change in emphasis from an earlier phase of his
administration, when Mr. de Blasio regularly reiterated his criticism of Mr.
Bloomberg from the campaign trail.

The perception of Mr. de Blasio as an ungracious winner set in early: At the new
mayor's inauguration on Jan. 1, 2014, multiple speakers attacked Mr. Bloomberg's
record in caustic terms, with one pastor comparing New York under Mr. Bloomberg
to a plantation. Mr. de Blasio defended the tenor of his fellow speakers,
angering Mr. Bloomberg's allies.

Mr. de Blasio continued to rebuke Mr. Bloomberg well into his second year in
office, and suggested in an interview with Rolling Stone that Mr. Bloomberg had
been more attentive to Goldman Sachs employees than to schoolchildren in East
New York, Brooklyn.

In corners of the city, that type of talk has fueled antipathy toward Mr. de
Blasio. At a political fund-raising event on Staten Island last week, former
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani drew cheers from a Republican crowd by attacking Mr.
de Blasio for ''that horrible speech about Bloomberg at his inauguration.''

Until his shift over the last month, Mr. de Blasio seemed indifferent to signs
of a political backlash.

Even as recently as the beginning of the summer, he reliably situated
compliments to Mr. Bloomberg within a politely critical frame. In May, during
his battle to extend City Hall's control of schools, Mr. de Blasio credited Mr.
Bloomberg with taking an expanded mayoral role in education. Still, Mr. de
Blasio added, that role ''could have been handled differently once it was
instituted.''

In July, as Mr. de Blasio acknowledged Mr. Bloomberg for having done a ''great
thing'' in creating an environmental sustainability plan for New York, the mayor
noted, ''The problem with the plan was it didn't have enough of an equality
frame to it.''

Gale A. Brewer, the Manhattan borough president, said she noticed Mr. de Blasio
adopting a more enthusiastic tone toward Mr. Bloomberg at the opening of a new
station for the No. 7 subway line in September. There, Mr. de Blasio added no
caveat to his remarks. Mr. Bloomberg, he said, ''saw an opportunity for this
city, and he went at it with all he had.''

''It's going to be a proud part of his legacy,'' he added.

Ms. Brewer, a Democrat, said many Manhattan voters would welcome the recognition
that the mayor was ''building on some of the Bloomberg efforts.''

''It's good that the mayor has his own list of projects, but they don't think
that the former mayor should be criticized as heavily as he has been,'' she
said.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/nyregion/de-blasios-attitude-on-bloomberg-shif
ts.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Back in 2013, Bill de Blasio sought to differentiate himself
from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Now he praises him publicly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Rudolph W. Giuliani and Michael R. Bloomberg with Mayor Bill de Blasio at the
World Trade Center grounds this past Sept. 11. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN R.
SMITH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CITIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL
PARTIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LIBERALISM
(77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS &
INSTITUTIONS (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%)

PERSON: BILL DE BLASIO (94%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%);
ANDREW CUOMO (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Via a Tweet, Ballmer Discloses His 4% Stake in Twitter

BYLINE: By MIKE ISAAC; Nick Wingfield contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 351 words


Steven A. Ballmer believes in Twitter. And he looks to be putting his money
where his mouth is.

In a tweet sent on Thursday evening, Mr. Ballmer, the former chief executive of
Microsoft, said he had acquired a 4 percent stake in Twitter, becoming one of
the single-largest outside shareholders of the company. He also praised one of
the company's new products, Moments, which organizes tweets on specific topics.

Good job @twitter,@twittermoments innovation, @jack Ceo, leaner, more focused.
Glad I bought 4% past few months. Like @alwaleedbinT move too

-- Steve Ballmer (@Steven_Ballmer) 16 Oct 15

A source familiar with the matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity,
confirmed that the Twitter account belonged to Mr. Ballmer.

The vote of confidence comes after a long year for the embattled company. User
growth for the company has slowed, its share price has fallen sharply and it has
lost many high-profile employees. Investors and analysts have worried that
unlike Facebook, Twitter may not be able to expand far beyond the more than 316
million people who now use it each month.

A spokesperson for Mr. Ballmer did not immediately respond to a request for
comment.

Mr. Ballmer joins a small cadre of outside owners of a large number of Twitter
shares, including Rizvi Traverse Management, which owns less than 5 percent, as
well as Morgan Stanley, which owns 4.54 percent of the company. Kingdom
Holdings, the investment arm of the Saudi Arabian prince, Alwaleed Bin Talal,
recently increased its stake in Twitter to more than 5 percent.

Mr. Ballmer's ownership stake appears to be even more than Jack Dorsey,
Twitter's co-founder and newly named chief executive, who owns a 3.2 percent
stake in the company. Evan Williams, Twitter co-founder and board member,
remains the single largest shareholder, with a roughly 6.9 percent stake.

Shares of Twitter jumped 5 percent on Friday, to $31.15. Twitter stock is down
more than 38 percent over the last year.

Nick Wingfield contributed reporting.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/10/16/steve-ballmer-buys-into-twitter/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%);
APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); NEW PRODUCTS
(76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (73%)

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); MORGAN
STANLEY (54%); KINGDOM HOLDINGS LTD (54%)

TICKER: TWTR (NYSE) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%); MS (NYSE)
(54%); 0528 (HKSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE
(58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS,
DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS313110 FIBER, YARN & THREAD MILLS
(54%); SIC2282 YARN TEXTURIZING, THROWING, TWISTING & WINDING MILLS (54%)

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (92%); JACK DORSEY (79%); EVANS WILLIAMS (58%); PRINCE
ALWALEED BIN TALAL (50%)

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A 'River' Box Set Coming From Springsteen

BYLINE: By JOE COSCARELLI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 216 words


The Bruce Springsteen faithful will soon have much more material to pore over
with the release of ''The Ties That Bind: The River Collection,'' a box set
exploring the era around the Boss's 1980 double album. The new four-CD,
three-DVD collection (plus a coffee-table book) will be out Dec. 4 via Columbia.

The extras include ''The River: Single Album,'' the original 10 tracks that Mr.
Springsteen recorded in 1979 for the project; another CD of 22 rare and unheard
studio outtakes from ''The River'' sessions, which continued into the next year;
an hourlong documentary, directed by Thom Zimny, that features Mr. Springsteen
reflecting on that period; and concert footage from a 1980 show.

The live material, nearly three hours from a set Mr. Springsteen played on Nov.
5, 1980 at Arizona State University, was recorded on four cameras, with
multitrack audio. There's also footage from a ''River'' tour rehearsal that
shows the E Street Band figuring out live arrangements for the album's tracks.

''The River,'' which Mr. Springsteen has said was when he ''first started to
tackle men and women and families and marriage'' in song, was his fifth studio
album and first to hit No. 1 on the Billboard chart.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/10/16/bruce-springsteen-releasing-the-riv
er-rarities-in-new-box-set/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); FILM DIRECTORS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (92%)

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Storm at Carnegie Hall

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 103 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Carnegie Faces Strife as It Enters New Season'' (Arts pages, Oct. 5):

Major nonprofits like Carnegie Hall seek board members who can be significant
donors. ''Give it, get it or get off,'' one nonprofit director told me.

The usual candidates are those who have been successful in business. But
business and nonprofit corporations are different from each other, and as a
rule, nonprofit boards, not the board chairman, hire and fire the organization's
chief staff administrative officer.

DONALD F. KNAPP

Port Townsend, Wash.

The writer was executive director of the Honeywell Foundation for 25 years.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/opinion/the-storm-at-carnegie-hall.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ASSOCIATIONS &
ORGANIZATIONS (88%); EXECUTIVES (87%); WRITERS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS
(74%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS
THEATRICAL SERVICES (90%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Keeping U.S. Troops in Afghanistan

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 459 words


To the Editor:

Re ''In Reversal, Obama Says U.S. Soldiers Will Stay in Afghanistan to 2017''
(front page, Oct. 16):

If after 14 years of training the Afghan Army, it still can't fight off the
Taliban, the Islamic State or any other terror group that may arise, it will
never be ready. Not only will we be putting the thousands of American troops
left behind at risk, but the United States and our interests will be at risk as
well.

One of the chief reasons the United States is a target for terror is simply that
we remain fighting on Muslim soil. Maybe President Obama ought to listen to his
own campaign promise -- to get our troops out of Afghanistan. We can't babysit
it forever.

JoANN LEE FRANK

Clearwater, Fla.

To the Editor:

The Obama administration says our troops have two missions to perform in
Afghanistan during their extended tour: training the Afghan Army and pursuing Al
Qaeda and other terror groups. To my mind, that is too vague. We have provided
billions of dollars over many years to train and equip the Afghan Army. Does
that training involve motivating it as well? Who trained the American colonists
to expel the British?

Our country has been plagued for decades by an inability to be explicit in our
military ventures. They have been lengthy and inconclusive because of ambiguous
assignments. Until our government is able to identify genuine threats to our
country, let's stop losing lives and limbs on distant battlefields.

I am honored to have served as a Marine rifle platoon commander in Vietnam.
Nonetheless, I am keenly aware of the Sisyphean challenge of combat without a
clear mission.

WILLIAM H. DOUGLASS

New York

To the Editor:

''A Grim Decision on Afghanistan'' (editorial, Oct. 16) should read ''Capping a
Long List of Grim Decisions on Afghanistan.'' The only ''key to ending'' wars
like those in Afghanistan and Iraq is to not start them in the first place.

MEL MINTHORN

Wilton, Conn.

To the Editor:

Re ''Fear of Taliban Drives Women Out of Kunduz'' (front page, Oct. 15):

As women in Afghanistan flee the Taliban for the alleged crime of providing safe
havens for victims of domestic abuse, as women and girls are systematically
enslaved and raped by ISIS, as girls kidnapped by Boko Haram are tortured, raped
and forced into marriage, we learn that two-thirds of the migrants pouring into
Europe are men, particularly young men.

The most able-bodied have left the most vulnerable -- women, children and the
elderly -- to endure the destruction and horrific depravities perpetrated by
male Muslim extremists. As these young men seek out the freedoms and
opportunities of the West, they must also embrace the Western values that give
women equality with men before the law.

JOY CUNNINGHAM

Austin, Tex.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/opinion/keeping-us-troops-in-afghanistan.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%);
ARMIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ISLAMIC STATE IN
IRAQ & THE LEVANT (89%); TALIBAN (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%);
BOKO HARAM (77%); WOMEN (76%); RELIGION (72%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (71%);
KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (64%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (79%); VIET NAM (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Don't Align With Russia

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 201 words


To the Editor:

Re ''A Road to Damascus, via Moscow,'' by Gordon Adams and Stephen M. Walt
(Op-Ed, Oct. 13):

The writers' recommendation that the United States align itself with Russia in
the fight against ISIS is both morally and strategically misguided. They argue
that a Russian alliance would provide us a ''link'' to the regime of Bashar
al-Assad, ''working ties with the Iranian'' regime, and ''an
intelligence-sharing agreement'' with Iran ''that could well include Iranian
allies like Hezbollah.''

However, Mr. Assad's regime is responsible for most of the quarter of a million
casualties in Syria's civil war; Iran is an expansionist country and the chief
backer of terrorism in the Mideast; and Hezbollah is a terrorist organization.

What's more, Russia under President Vladimir V. Putin is responsible for the
ruthless crackdown on Muslims in Chechnya. For the sake of our standing
vis-à-vis moderate countries and peoples in the Mideast, we must distance
ourselves from such unsavory parties.

To be, or even appear to be, allied with parties that threaten our allies in the
region would erode the already much-damaged respect and credibility of the
United States.

LEN BRESLOW

Chevy Chase, Md.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/opinion/dont-align-with-russia-to-fight-isis.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEZBOLLAH (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS
(90%); WRITERS (78%); ISLAMIC STATE IN IRAQ & THE LEVANT (77%); TERRORISM (74%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (73%); SYRIAN CRISIS (71%);
MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); AGREEMENTS (55%); RELIGION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (83%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (73%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%)

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%)

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN,
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYRIA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GREENBERG, ROSALIE "MICKEY" BROWN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 266 words


GREENBERG--Rosalie "Mickey" Brown, November 27, 1917 - October 14, 2015. Mickey
Greenberg lived a long and exemplary life, where family and community service
were paramount. A founding member and third President of the Long Island Jewish
Medical Center Service Guild and Trustee and a Vice Chair of LIJ and trustee of
its successor North Shore- LIJ Health System where she spent 38 years focusing
on community health development, medical affairs, women's health and physicians'
relations as chairman of various committees. As LIJ's representative on the
Board of the United Hospital Fund, serving as Chair of its Women's Board, and
later as Vice Chair of its full Board of Directors she received the 1980
Distinguished Service Award.

A Trustee of Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, she chaired its Board of Education
during the mid-50's to the early 60's and served as Vice President of the Board
of Trustees. Throughout her life, she led by example, with an optimistic
attitude, sincere commitment to making a difference, and deep abiding love of
family and friends. Loving wife of the late Herbert Greenberg of Great Neck, NY,
for 58 years, she was the devoted mother of Edward A. "Woody" Greenberg (Jane
Bowling), Betsy G. Feinberg (Robert), Amy G. Poster (Robert), and Susan G. Piper
(Gordon); adored grandmother of Cara Feinberg, Guy Greenberg, Joanna Piper
Cuevas Ingram (Carlos), Tracy Piper Sutherland (Ben) and Michael Piper and
loving aunt and friend to a large extended family. Funeral service will be held
at Temple Beth-El, Old Mill Road in Great Neck, on Sunday, October 18th at noon.
1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); FAMILY (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SCHOOL
BOARDS (77%); ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS (77%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (73%);
BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%)

COMPANY: NORTH SHORE LONG ISLAND JEWISH HEALTH SYSTEM (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (72%); SIC8062
GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Chicago, a Feast of Forsythe

BYLINE: By ALASTAIR MACAULAY

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 729 words


CHICAGO -- This city has two dance companies famous beyond here: the Joffrey
Ballet and Hubbard Street Dance Chicago. Hubbard Street, formed in 1977, has
been here longer; the Joffrey, founded in 1956 in New York, moved here in 1995.
Each performs on a memorable Chicago stage: the Joffrey at the 1889 Auditorium
Theater (Prokofiev's opera ''The Love of Three Oranges'' had its world premiere
there in 1921; it can seat 3,737), and Hubbard Street at the 2003 Harris Theater
which, with two raked tiers, both subterranean, has a capacity of 1,525.

Though I had seen Hubbard Street elsewhere, this visit was my first to the
Harris Theater, in Millennium Park, which was built partly to the company's
specifications. Thursday's audience was strikingly youthful and enthusiastic.

By strange chance, the two companies this week present works by American
choreographers whose careers began in Germany and, despite international
acclaim, have largely remained there -- John Neumeier (Joffrey) and William
Forsythe (Hubbard Street). The Joffrey opened Mr. Neumeier's ''Sylvia'' on
Wednesday. Thursday brought Hubbard Street's first Forsythe triple bill:
''N.N.N.N.'' (2002), ''Quintett'' (1985) and ''One Flat Thing, reproduced''
(2000). (''N.N.N.N.'' was being performed for the first time by any American
company; in 2012, this was the first American troupe to dance ''Quintett.'')

The Hubbard Street dancers -- 15 performed on Thursday -- are attractive,
skilled, personable. I imagine many will praise them more warmly yet; in other
repertory I hope I would, too. But Mr. Forsythe's dances all become hollow
studies in dancerliness, with exaggerated dynamic contrasts. (A slow-stretched
gesture in one direction, for example, is followed by a pow! impulse that takes
the dancer another way.) In ''Quintett,'' I admired the powerful purity of
Andrew Murdock, a Canadian dancer who joined this troupe in 2013; but early in
''One Flat Thing,'' he showed the same mannered switches between lingering and
attack, both showy.

Anyone can see and hear the differences among these three pieces. ''N.N.N.N.''
is a quartet -- two women, two men, working closely together, largely in
pedestrian vocabulary, notably swings of arm and leg, touch, clap and
interrupted gesture -- in which breath sounds created by the dancers themselves
are amplified and mixed with faint sound effects by the composer Thom Willems.
''Quintett,'' set to Gavin Bryars's arrangement of the chant ''Jesus' Blood
Never Failed Me Yet,'' features three men and two women in various (often
simultaneous) solos, duets and trios; at one point, a film -- seemingly of
passing clouds -- is switched onto the backdrop. ''One Flat Thing'' is for 20
steel-framed tables that occupy most of the floor space and 14 dancers, who lie
beneath, lean over, lie on top of or pass between these tables; the score, by
Mr. Willems, sounds like garbled radio noise with lots of static.

To me, however, all three feel just the same. Each is an exercise in absurdism
that (unlike the important dramas of the Theater of the Absurd) lacks depth and
cultivates surface display. The audible use of breath in ''N.N.N.N.'' may be fun
at first, but it, too, becomes shtick, often louder and faster than needed for
cues. And I have never enjoyed the rhythmic structure of any Forsythe dance. The
emphasis on heightened dynamic contrasts makes the time values of each piece
feel like overused elastic.

Mr. Forysthe's work is taken seriously by many, including friends I love and
respect. And I keep trying to see what lures them. But it still eludes me. Just
to concentrate on what's happening onstage always involves professional effort.

These three Hubbard Street acquisitions show none of the sensationalist effects
of off-balance pointwork and hyperextension that for some years in the late 20th
century made Mr. Forsythe the darling of several prestigious ballet companies;
but that style, too, was mere surface, and he has not tried to sustain it. This
year he has been appointed associate choreographer at the Paris Opera Ballet.
Will this open a new chapter in his work? Here's hoping. The response of the
Hubbard Street audience showed that its older chapters still cause excitement.

­Hubbard Street Dance Chicago performs its William Forsythe program through Oct.
18 at the Harris Theater in Chicago; hubbardstreetdance.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/arts/dance/review-hubbard-streets-feast-of-for
sythe.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hubbard Street Dance Chicago: Members of the company in
''N.N.N.N.,'' one of three William Forsythe works on the program Thursday night.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD ROSENBERG)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (91%); DANCE COMPANIES (91%); BALLET (90%); THEATER (89%);
DANCERS (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION
(71%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hungary Seals Border With Croatia

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN; Reporting was contributed by Andrew Higgins from
Brussels; Nick Cumming-Bruce from Geneva; Palko Karasz from London; Joseph
Orovic from Zadar, Croatia; Balint Bardi from Budapest; and Barbara Surk from
Ljubljana, Slovenia.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1461 words


WARSAW -- Hungary closed its border with Croatia early Saturday to stem the flow
of thousands of migrants who had been making their way into the heart of Europe
-- just over a day after European Union leaders failed to reach a deal to seal
the bloc's outer borders.

The Hungarian foreign minister, Peter Szijjarto, told reporters in Budapest on
Friday that his country was taking the action for two reasons: it had finally
completed a razor-wire fence along the 216-mile border and, more crucially,
because the European Union had yet to come up with a comprehensive plan to deal
with the flow of migrants.

For the last month, a migrant trail has operated freely, with countries along
the route from the Balkans to Germany allowing those seeking asylum to pass
through their territories -- as long as they either applied for asylum or exited
on the other end.

The arrangement has helped to avert the kind of humanitarian crises that erupted
in Central Europe in late August and early September, when migrants fleeing war
and poverty in the Middle East, Africa and elsewhere began pouring into the
Balkans in huge numbers.

Hungary's unilateral move threatened to upend the situation, but other countries
in the region quickly said they were prepared to take up the slack -- for the
time being.

Officials in Croatia, which had been moving thousands of migrants into Hungary
since that country had closed its border with Serbia a month ago, said they
simply would shift the human flow west, into Slovenia, which had been preparing
for such an eventuality. Croatia and Slovenia insisted, though, that they would
be forced to close their borders, too, if Austria and Germany decided to stop
accepting the migrants.

Slovenian officials said that while they could not accept an endless human
surge, they had built the capacity to move as many as 6,000 migrants a day into
Austria, and would continue to do so as long as the path remained open.

Speaking after a meeting of the Hungarian national security committee on Friday
afternoon, Mr. Szijjarto said the government had alerted Croatia, as well as
Austria, Germany, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia, about its decision to close the
border.

''The important thing is we expected this to happen and we are prepared for
it,'' said Slovenia's foreign minister, Karl Erjavec. ''Our goal is to assure
security and order at our national borders and at the E.U. border and, at the
same time, offer migrants a proper, humane treatment.''

Croatian officials, though, worried that Hungary's move would cause a ''chain
reaction'' of neighboring countries also blocking migrants. ''If Austria closes
its border, then Croatia must close its border, as well,'' said Croatia's
foreign minister, Vesna Pusic.

Hungary approved the plan to close the crossing after European Union leaders
agreed on Thursday to improve border controls and backed a deal with Turkey
intended to slow the influx of migrants into Europe. But the deal with Turkey
was not made final, and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany is headed to
Istanbul this weekend to meet with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to try to
reach an agreement.

Aid groups and refugee officials have warned for months that the closing of any
borders between Greece, where many of the migrants first enter Europe, and their
intended destinations in Germany, Sweden or elsewhere will quickly cause a
backup at borders along the so-called West Balkan route. That would lead to new
encampments of stranded migrants behind blocked borders.

Hungary closed its nearly 109-mile border with Serbia last month after more than
350,000 migrants entered the country this year through the West Balkans, en
route to Germany and other destinations.

As a result, the migrant flow shifted west, into Croatia, and until now people
had been allowed to register and cross the Hungarian border on their way to
Austria and beyond.

Slovenia has built 12 reception centers, with up to 7,500 beds. With winter
approaching, the country is also scrambling to find sufficient heated
accommodations for the migrants should they be delayed on their journey to
Austria.

For months, Hungarian officials had complained that the failure of Greece, the
migrants' initial entry point, to control the human flow has shifted the burden
to Hungary and other European Union nations.

Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary has repeatedly called for a multinational
European effort to intercept refugees at the Greek border rather than dealing
with the influx piecemeal, at borders throughout the Balkans and Central Europe.
So far, the proposal has found no widespread support in Brussels.

''The European Council meeting has not resulted in any decision that would
provide for defending the common borders of the European Union with European
forces,'' said Mr. Szijjarto, the Hungarian foreign minister.

If Hungary follows the same policy it has put in place on the Serbian border,
any migrants caught crossing the border or tampering with the fence would be
arrested and subject to years in prison.

Official border crossings would remain open, but migrants seeking to cross would
be sent to a transit zone adjacent to the border to begin the long process of
applying for asylum. Hungary plans to open two such transit zones along its
border with Croatia.

Two transit zones are already in operation on Hungary's border with Serbia, but
only about 500 refugees have tried to use them, said Babar Baloch, a spokesman
for the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Hungary.

Implementing a similar policy on the Croatian border would mean that no more
people would be allowed through, Mr. Baloch said. ''This is not going to end the
crisis or the number of people who are trying to seek safety in Europe,'' he
said. ''It may reroute the population somewhere else, but this is not the final
answer.''

United Nations officials in Geneva have said that Europe needs to act quickly to
develop reception centers and accelerate the relocation of asylum seekers, as
its refugee agency on the Greek island of Lesbos is struggling with a surge in
migrants crossing the narrow waterway between the island and Turkey.

European leaders agreed at a summit meeting on Sept. 22 to spread 120,000 asylum
seekers around Europe, even to countries that do not want them, and to set up
''hot spots'' to quicken the process of registering and moving migrants. But
United Nations officials say the reception system continues to be overwhelmed.

''This is not a crisis at the moment that is adequately managed,'' Adrian
Edwards, a spokesman for the United Nations refugee agency, said in Geneva.
''What's needed is rapid implementation of what has been agreed.''

About 85 boats landed on Lesbos on Wednesday, and similar numbers arrived on
Thursday and Friday, according to representatives of the refugee agency. They
reported seeing up to six boats arriving at a time, most of them rubber dinghies
carrying about 50 people each.

The refugee agency temporarily evacuated the registration facilities at Moria,
outside the island's capital, Mytilene, after an outbreak of violence among the
thousands of migrants who line up there, sometimes for days.

More than 450,000 refugees and migrants have reached Greece by boat this year,
Mr. Edwards said, adding that Europe must act quickly to set up proper reception
centers.

The reasons for the current spike in arrivals are unclear, but Mr. Edwards cited
a slight improvement in weather, and a rush to reach Europe before winter sets
in or its borders close. Fresh fighting in Syria may also have spurred more
people to flee.

European leaders who gathered in Brussels on Thursday did not endorse calling in
troops to slow the flow of migrants but did agree on measures to achieve the
same end. Those included the deployment of hundreds of border guards from across
Europe to help Greece manage its borders and a sharp expansion in the powers and
resources of Frontex, the union's previously largely powerless border agency.

''We don't know for certain what went on at the European Council meeting, but I
have to guess that Orban and his team must have concluded that a decision on
protecting the European Union's external border or a deal with Turkey were still
far-off,'' said Attila Tibor Nagy, an analyst at the Center for Fair Political
Analysis, a research group in Budapest.

At the same time, Mr. Nagy said, Mr. Orban felt pressure to follow through on
promises he had made to Hungarians over the summer to crack down on the migrants
after his government mounted an aggressive anti-immigrant campaign.

Get news and analysis from Europe and around the world delivered to your inbox
every day with the Today's Headlines: European Morning newsletter. Sign up here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/europe/hungary-croatia-refugees-migrants
.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Migrants on Friday walked into Hungary from the southern border
with Croatia before Hungary approved a plan to close the crossing. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY LASZLO BALOGH/REUTERS)
A boy waited for his family to disembark from the boat that took them to Lesbos,
Greece, on Friday. Lesbos has been the main entry point for Middle Eastern
migrants to Europe. (A4)
 Migrant women rested after landing in Greece on Friday. Hungarian officials
said that the failure of Greece to control the flow had burdened other nations.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SERGEY PONOMAREV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) MAP: Aid groups
warned that closing any borders between Greece and migrants' intended
destinations would cause a backup. (A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); STATE
DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); INTERNATIONAL
ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); APPROVALS (68%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (68%); SPECIAL
INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (92%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (92%)

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (99%); EUROPE (96%); CROATIA (95%); SLOVENIA (94%); GREECE
(94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%);
POLAND (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (89%); SLOVAKIA (79%); SERBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigration Story

BYLINE: By GIA KOURLAS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 435 words


H. T. Chen didn't merely dabble in history for his new ''South of Gold
Mountain,'' a dance-theater exploration of the Chinese immigrants who ventured
to the United States and landed in the American South in the 18th and early 19th
centuries. He plunged in.

''South of Gold Mountain,'' performed on Thursday at New York Live Arts, was
three years in the making and includes research and interviews with immigrants
and their descendants by Mr. Chen -- whose work often focuses on social and
political subjects -- and Dian Dong, the associate director of his company, who
is the co-choreographer of the work and also his wife. Chinese immigrants, the
program says, referred to the United States as ''Gold Mountain,'' a term dating
to the gold rush.

James Lo's score mixes the blues and traditional Chinese music, sounds taken
from restaurants and nature, and segments from the interviews. For the Chinese
New Year, one woman recalls, her family always served black-eyed peas: ''I
thought it was Chinese.''

But there was discrimination and segregation, too, indicated when the dancers
hold hands and tersely pull away or take one step forward and two steps back.
Mr. Chen, who includes children in his cast, has produced a work that hops
between being overly vague (generic dance phrases embellished with imploring,
reaching arms) and overly illustrative (the ''Family Laundry'' section, in which
children fold clothing). It's well meaning but dull, even though the subject
matter is not.

During ''Fresh Sprouts,'' the cast members dig and pat down invisible soil as if
they're planting seeds on a cotton plantation. Afterward, projections of
black-and-white images appear on a screen at the back of the stage to show some
of the businesses that the immigrants started: grocery stores, markets,
restaurants and laundries. In the scenes, Ms. Dong plays a mother figure;
Renouard Gee is the father. They are the owners in the ''Restaurant'' scene,
which includes a rubber chicken and -- this is a head scratcher -- a moment for
the dancers, dressed as waiters and holding plates, to cover the stage in pas de
chat jumps while ''Swan Lake'' plays.

And then it's time for a snack. The cast members walk up and down the aisles to
offer audience members fortune cookies. (It's unusual that a choreographer would
actually work the irritating sound of crinkling wrappers into a dance.) My
date's fortune read, ''One extends one's limits only by exceeding them.'' If
only ''South'' had done the same.

H.T. Chen & Dancers continues through Sunday at New York Live Arts, Manhattan;
212-924-0077, newyorklivearts­.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/arts/dance/review-south-of-gold-mountain-explo
res-chinese-roots.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: H.T. Chen & Dancers: From left, Kelly Butterworth, Ari Someya,
Torrey McAnena and Ezra Goh performing at New York Live Arts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); DANCE (90%); INTERVIEWS
(90%); DANCERS (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%);
RESTAURANTS (89%); THEATER (89%); RACE & RACISM (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%);
COURTSHIP & DATING (74%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (72%); JAZZ & BLUES (71%); DRY
CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (68%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD
SERVICE INDUSTRY (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

'A Wall of Mud' in California, and Warnings to Heed El Niño

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 730 words


LOS ANGELES -- With strong El Niño conditions now established in the Pacific
Ocean, Southern California has been getting a taste of what might be in store
this winter: lots of desperately needed rain, but also dangerous mudslides and
flash flooding.

After several hours of heavy rain, mud and debris cascaded down hillsides north
of Los Angeles on Thursday, blocking two freeways, including Interstate 5, the
critical artery linking this city with San Francisco, Sacramento and Seattle.
Mud, sometimes up to windshields, swallowed hundreds of vehicles across the
region. Traffic coming south toward Los Angeles all but stopped, stranding
travelers far from home.

Near Tehachapi, north of here, the hills beside State Route 58 suddenly caved
in. Jessica Rose, who was driving to her grandfather's funeral in Los Angeles,
pulled off the highway and onto an overpass just before it hit.

''I saw the mudslide -- it looked like a brown waterfall coming down the
mountain,'' Ms. Rose, 22, said. ''It was like Niagara Falls but brown, like the
chocolate waterfall from Willy Wonka. Cars were all crashing into each other
because there was 15 feet of water. Semi trucks were stuck in it. It was the
most serious thing I've ever seen.''

In all, about 115 cars and 75 tractor-trailers were stuck on the Route 58
freeway. No injuries were reported, but 300 people were evacuated, and many
spent the night at American Red Cross shelters. Some remained in their vehicles
overnight and did not get out until Friday morning, said Ray Pruitt, a spokesman
for the Kern County Sheriff's Department.

More than 100 vehicles were still lined up on the highway on Friday, Mr. Pruitt
said, and bulldozers had gotten stuck trying to clear them out.

''There are four to five feet of mud covering the highway in both directions,''
Mr. Pruitt said. ''It basically looks like a wall of mud. I'm looking at semis
buried in four feet of mud. It's a miracle no one was seriously hurt.''

Rain was heaviest just southwest of Lancaster, where more than three inches fell
in just an hour; golfball-size hail was also reported in the area. Funnel clouds
were seen near Lake Hughes, not far from the mudslide on Interstate 5.

With more rain expected, flash flood warnings remained in place for much of the
region on Friday.

Local and state officials have been trying to alert citizens to the dangers El
Niño will bring -- in addition to the welcome rain after four years of record
drought -- in hopes of limiting damage.

Los Angeles has set up a website devoted to El Niño preparation, which warns,
''El Niño may bring much-needed drought relief to our state, but it could also
mean El Monstruo-type storms creating disastrous flooding and mudslides.'' The
site encourages residents to obtain sand bags from the Fire Department, clear
storm drains and prepare catch basins.

But many of those who got in trouble on Thursday and Friday ignored warnings,
officials said.

Fire crews across Los Angeles and Kern Counties performed dangerous swift-water
rescues, pulling people from trapped vehicles through windows as water rose too
high for doors to open. Near Tehachapi, a woman who was seven months pregnant
was helped to safety through her car's sun roof.

Patrick Chandler, a spokesman for the California Department of Transportation,
offered a message repeated by many frustrated officials on Friday: The public
needs to heed warnings about dangerous conditions, especially with heavy rains
and mudslides likely all winter.

There were plenty of signs warning people to stay away from Interstate 5, he
said, but thousands kept coming anyway and ended up stranded when the road was
closed.

''We really need people to look at a map and have everything they need before
they head out, especially with El Niño coming,'' he said. ''We have got to get
people out of that trance.''

Luisa Zavala was on her way south from Seattle when the storm closed Interstate
5. When she took a detour to Route 58, that was closed, too. So she and her
husband, with their 8-year-old daughter, cut onto a back road.

They got stuck in mud so high they could not open the doors. About two hours
later, the sheriff's deputies arrived. It was 4 a.m.

They planned to head on to Los Angeles again Friday.

''There is still a flash flood warning for one potential route,'' Ms. Zavala,
27, said, ''so we're not going to go that way.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/us/a-wall-of-mud-in-california-and-warnings-to
-heed-el-nino.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: About 115 cars and 75 tractor-trailers were stuck on State Route
58. ''It's a miracle no one was seriously hurt,'' Ray Pruitt, a spokesman for
the Kern County sheriff, said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MAP: Mudslides blocked parts of Interstate 5 and State Route 58.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); LANDSLIDES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS
(89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS
(77%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); DROUGHT (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SEVERE
WEATHER (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); SHERIFFS (75%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (54%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA,
USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Days After Spirited Win, Blue Jays Fizzle vs. Royals

BYLINE: By DAVID WALDSTEIN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROYALS 5, BLUE JAYS 0; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 841 words


KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- The raging party that erupted in Toronto after the Blue
Jays' dramatic win in Game 5 of their American League division series against
the Texas Rangers may have come at a short-term cost.

Long after that clinching game, Blue Jays players celebrated their emotional
victory, which most of them labeled the greatest of their careers.

Two days later, they could not follow it up with a win in Game 1 of the league
championship series. Whether it was a natural letdown, a kind of hangover effect
or just the noticeably strong pitching of Edinson Volquez, the Blue Jays looked
doomed from the start.

Of course, the Kansas City Royals also partied on Wednesday when they won their
Game 5 over the Houston Astros. But their celebration was more subdued, and they
did not have to travel the next day, as the Blue Jays did.

And for the first time in three games, the Blue Jays did not have to play with
the crisp urgency of a team facing elimination.

So, when the championship series began Friday, the Royals were the sharper team,
and it showed as they beat the Blue Jays, 5-0.

''That was the different thing coming to the ballpark today,'' Toronto shortstop
Troy Tulowitzki said. ''We weren't faced with elimination, whereas the last
three games we were. So it was obviously a different feeling. They got Game 1,
but it's not time to hit the panic button.''

Game 2 is scheduled for Saturday afternoon, with the Royals' Yordano Ventura set
to take on David Price, who has never won a postseason start.

''I don't think we necessarily played our best game,'' the third baseman Josh
Donaldson said, ''But you have to give their pitchers credit.''

What surprised the Blue Jays the most about Game 1 was not the carry-over effect
from Game 5, which they tended to play down. It was the opposing pitcher and his
increased velocity.

Volquez usually throws his fastball between 93 and 94 miles per hour, but on
Friday it was a tick higher, especially when the fans chanted, ''Eddie, Eddie,''
to pump him up for the most important pitches.

''Someone was telling me I was throwing 96 and 97,'' Volquez said. ''But hearing
it from the fans, it's a lot of energy.''

Volquez pitched six scoreless innings and held the Blue Jays -- the best
offensive team in the regular season -- to two hits. The visitors struck a few
balls very hard, but often on a line directly to fielders. The closest the Blue
Jays came to a rally was via bases on balls.

In the sixth inning, Volquez walked the first two batters but struck out Edwin
Encarnacion, got Chris Colabello to line out on a full-count pitch and then
struck out Tulowitzki looking at strike three, also on a full count.

Volquez threw 37 pitches in the inning but did not yield a run.

Worse for the Blue Jays, Encarnacion left the game with soreness in his left
middle finger. He had X-rays taken, which showed no serious injury, but he has
been playing through soreness in the finger for weeks.

''Usually, a day or two, it calms down and he's able to get through it,''
Toronto Manager John Gibbons said. ''We'll see. It's an early game tomorrow.
Hopefully he'll be ready to go.''

If the Blue Jays could not find a productive hit, the Royals did. Catcher
Salvador Perez hit a bases-empty home run off Marco Estrada in the fourth, and
Kansas City tacked on two insurance runs in the eighth inning.

The Royals, who won the pennant last year, arrived in this series thanks in part
to a dramatic comeback in Game 4 of their division series with the Houston
Astros. They finished off that series in a fairly routine Game 5 at home on
Wednesday, just hours after the Blue Jays won one of the most exciting games in
their history.

On that day, Toronto overcame a controversial call that gave the Rangers the
go-ahead run in the seventh, and then scored four runs in the bottom of the
inning, the last three coming on Jose Bautista's laser-shot home run.

Bautista did not fare as well Friday, going 0 for 1 with three walks as the
Royals pitched very carefully to him.

There was not nearly as much emotion or energy in this game, at least for the
Blue Jays.

The Royals, however, showed their aggressive intent at the outset when Alcides
Escobar swung at the first pitch of the game from Estrada and drove it into the
left-field corner for a double.

They scored in the third when Alex Gordon led off with a double to right field.
Estrada struck out Alex Rios, but Escobar punched a low line drive down the
first-base line and into right field for a double as Gordon scored with ease.

One out later, Lorenzo Cain found a hole on the right side of the infield and
pushed a hit through it to score Escobar as the Royals eased comfortably into a
2-0 lead.

The lead increased to 3-0 when Perez drove a two-out offering from Estrada over
the wall in left field, and Volquez could pitch the rest of the way with a
comfortable lead, which every pitcher enjoys.

''Best feeling in the world,'' Volquez said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/baseball/days-after-uplifting-victory-b
lue-jays-fall-flat-against-the-royals.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Royals' Salvador Perez after the Blue Jays' Troy Tulowitzki
struck out in Game 1 of the A.L.C.S. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED
PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: KANSAS CITY ROYALS (94%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (94%); TEXAS RANGERS
(84%); HOUSTON ASTROS (56%)

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (88%); HOUSTON, TX, USA
(79%)

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Witness Says Clash Over Witchcraft Preceded a Teenager's Fatal Beating

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY, BENJAMIN MUELLER and RICK ROJAS; Jesse McKinley and
Rick Rojas reported from New Hartford, and Benjamin Mueller from New York. Nate
Schweber contributed reporting from New Hartford, and Susan C. Beachy
contributed research.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1190 words


NEW HARTFORD, N.Y. --  On Sunday night, toward the end of a daylong church
service, Tiffanie Irwin, the pastor at Word of Life Christian Church here,
turned to her congregation and made a stunning accusation.

Someone among them, she said, was practicing witchcraft.

Lucas Leonard, a 19-year-old whose family was immersed in Word of Life's
secretive practices, said that he was the one, that he wanted church elders to
die and that he had considered making a voodoo doll of a church leader.

Those revelations were some of what one member of the church, Daniel Irwin, told
investigators after Mr. Leonard was beaten to death by a group of fellow
congregants -- including Mr. Leonard's parents and half sister -- during a
so-called counseling session that began on Sunday night and stretched into
Monday morning.

The account of Mr. Irwin, 24, a Word of Life deacon whose family leads the
church, provided the latest possible explanation of what had precipitated the
attack. Mr. Leonard's younger brother, Christopher, 17, was also beaten for
hours but survived. He remained hospitalized on Friday and was cooperating with
the authorities.

The police reiterated on Friday that the beatings had grown out of concerns that
Lucas Leonard wanted to defect from the group. They have also rejected
assertions that he had been punished for molesting children who also belonged to
Word of Life, a reclusive sect whose former members have called it emotionally
manipulative and cultlike and whose unusual activities in a former schoolhouse
had long puzzled residents in this central New York town.

A statement made by Mr. Irwin to the authorities that had not been made public,
but was reviewed by The New York Times, suggests that church members may have
been unsettled by Mr. Leonard's open admission of practicing witchcraft. Mr.
Irwin was also a central witness as county prosecutors presented evidence during
a preliminary hearing on Friday and offered disturbing details about the attack.

Sitting on the witness stand chewing gum, Mr. Irwin recalled seeing Mr.
Leonard's father, Bruce, beating the teenager with an electrical cord. The
attack, in a sanctuary at the rear of the church, ended when it did -- at 10
a.m. the following day -- because, Mr. Irwin said, ''Luke was dead at that
point.''

Bruce Leonard, 65, and his wife, Deborah Leonard, 59, shackled hand and foot and
wearing orange prison jumpsuits, were in court just a few feet from Mr. Irwin on
Friday. Both have been charged with first-degree manslaughter; neither looked at
Mr. Irwin during his testimony.

Four other church members, including Sarah Ferguson, the victim's half sister,
and Joseph Irwin, who is Daniel Irwin's older brother and also a deacon in the
church, have been charged with assault. All six were in court on Friday,
including two other congregants, David Morey and Linda Morey, who have been
released on bail.

Daniel Irwin said that shortly after the counseling session began, he could hear
a voice being raised in the room. Five children -- one of them the Leonards'
youngest son, and the others Sarah Ferguson's children -- were being looked
after in a nearby room. He led them to a different part of the church building,
he said, ''so they wouldn't be afraid.''

Mr. Irwin, who lived in a residential portion of the church building with other
members of his family, said he was not involved in the beatings. But he saw
Lucas Leonard at various points during his ordeal, including early on Monday
when, he said, the teenager's leg was bloodied but he was coherent.

''He didn't seem overly injured,'' Mr. Irwin said. ''He was walking on his
own.''

The last time he saw Mr. Leonard conscious, he said, was sometime after dawn,
and his injuries had become more severe. He was on the floor on the main
sanctuary, a former gymnasium at the rear of the church building, but ''alert
enough to answer questions.''

''I remember that he was rolling himself back and forth on the floor and making
a sustained monotone moan,'' Mr. Irwin said.

By midmorning, the situation had turned dire, when Joseph Irwin and Mr. Morey,
who had been in the counseling session, ran into the residence in a panic. ''I
went back down to the main sanctuary,'' Daniel Irwin said. ''I saw Luke Leonard
lying on the floor.'' Mr. Irwin's mother, Traci, and Bruce Leonard were trying
to resuscitate him, Mr. Irwin said.

But they stopped after about 10 minutes. Church members tried to to load Lucas
Leonard him into the van, but they were ''hysterical at this point,'' Daniel
Irwin said.

''I grabbed Luke and carried him outside,'' he said. But he was pronounced dead
at a hospital on Monday.

In a police interview with Ms. Leonard, Sgt. Todd Grant, an investigator with
the State Police, said he gave her the cord for his laptop computer and asked
her to demonstrate how she had hit her son by slamming the cord against a table.
The hitting was ''very hard and violent,'' he testified on Friday.

Ms. Leonard also told him that Ms. Ferguson had joined in the beating. ''Sarah
was even angrier at Lucas,'' Sergeant Grant said, ''and she hit him even
harder.'' She was upset, he added, ''for things he had said during the course of
the night.''

Mr. Irwin also said in statements to the authorities that at some point during
the night he was told by another church member that Lucas Leonard had admitted
to abusing children in the church.

But the police have consistently rejected that suggestion. ''There is absolutely
no indication of any sexual abuse to any of the children,'' said Chief Michael
S. Inserra of the New Hartford Police Department.

It was not uncommon for church leaders to plant rumors about congregants from
the pulpit, several former Word of Life members said, sometimes alleging that a
parent had been unfaithful or that a young member had inappropriately touched
another child. The rumors were often outlandish and false, the ex-congregants
said, but that did not keep them from splitting families apart and spreading
fear of the longtime pastor, Jerry Irwin, the family patriarch. Mr. Irwin died
several years ago, but the memory of his reprimands remains fresh, former
congregants said.

''He would verbally attack you,'' said Nathan Ames, whose family belonged to the
church when he was born in 1989 and who said he had been driven out by Mr. Irwin
in 2001. ''Sometimes he would drop hints he was talking about that person, and
sometimes he would just say their name. But if someone left, he would bash them
so much. He would spread these lies: 'Oh, I saw them watching TV. This person
wanted to rape my daughter. This person wanted to sleep with my wife.' ''

Though Mr. Irwin testified that he had never sat through an entire counseling
session, he said it was not typical for violence to take place during such
events. He said he had never before seen anyone physically beaten on the church
grounds.

He recalled that as he saw Mr. Leonard laying still in the sanctuary on Monday
morning, his own sense of urgency at the situation distorted his perceptions.

''It seemed like I was looking through a pipe,'' he said. ''Everything seemed
weird to me.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/nyregion/word-of-life-fatal-beating-new-hartfo
rd-police-lucas-leonard.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Daniel Irwin, who testified about the beatings at Word of Life
Christian Church, leaving court in New Hartford, N.Y., on Friday. Mr. Irwin's
family leads the church. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Deborah Leonard, left, and Bruce Leonard, right, flanked their lawyers in court
on Friday. (POOL PHOTO BY TINA RUSSELL) (A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WITCHCRAFT (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); RELIGION (90%); WITNESSES
(89%); HOMICIDE (89%); TESTIMONY (85%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT
(77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); MANSLAUGHTER (74%); CHILD ABUSE (70%); CHILD SEXUAL
ABUSE (65%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (62%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (55%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Online University Helps Philanthropic Groups and Their Leaders

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1278 words


GAYATRI GANESH, director of development at the Christian Hospital, a rural
hospital in Mungeli, India, says she hopes to get better at tapping into the
international network of donors that could help sustain the hospital.

Paolo Pagaduan, a project manager with the World Wildlife Fund in the
Philippines, says he is trying to learn a new role at the organization.

Both have signed up for courses at the new nonprofit group Philanthropy
University, started by Amr Al-Dabbagh, a Saudi businessman and philanthropist.
Mr. Dabbagh donated several million dollars to see if a learning initiative
could improve the lives of 100 million people by 2020.

Through his family's Stars Foundation, he has worked with the Haas School of
Business at the University of California, Berkeley, to create ''massive open
online courses,'' also known as MOOCs, on how to be a better philanthropist and
leader of a nonprofit group. The courses are taught by some top thinkers on
philanthropy. These include Paul Brest, professor emeritus at Stanford Law
School and the former president of the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, and
Jessica Jackley, co-founder of Kiva, a microlending platform, and the author of
''Clay Water Brick: Finding Inspiration from Entrepreneurs Who Do the Most With
the Least.''

''There's a desperate need for such an offering,'' Mr. Dabbagh said. ''We're
offering a world-class curriculum with world-class practitioners and professors,
and we're offering it as a free collaborative platform with a vibrant
community.''

Philanthropy University is certainly off to a fast start. In the first month
since its website went live, 200,000 people from 138 countries signed up for
more than 400,000 online classes. Mr. Dabbagh, whose fortune comes from a
family-owned conglomerate that began in the agricultural industry, started
working on the idea only 18 months ago and formally announced it in December.

Laura Tyson, director of the Institute for Business and Social Impact at the
Haas School of Business and head of the Council of Economic Advisers in
President Bill Clinton's White House, signed on to lead Philanthropy
University's advisory committee.

''I thought the technology was very compelling,'' she said. ''I also knew a lot
of the work that nonprofits have to do in scaling themselves and that there is a
lot of duplication around the world. You don't have to duplicate, but you can
cooperate.''

Here is how Philanthropy University hopes to achieve that cooperation. With its
two partners, the Haas School and NovoEd, which operates the technology platform
for the courses, Philanthropy University is offering seven courses, including
''Essentials of Nonprofit Strategy'' taught by Mr. Brest and ''Global Social
Entrepreneurship'' from Ms. Jackley.

One aim in the creation of the courses seemed simple enough -- that they not be
boring. But this is something online learning has struggled with. ''From Day 1,
we asked, 'How do we make it more interesting? How do we keep people hooked?'''
Mr. Dabbagh said. ''They can be easily distracted.''

Each course is broken into short segments of about 11 minutes that stretch over
seven weeks. Mr. Brest said he was excited about the new format, even though he
was concerned about not being able to gauge the interest of his students online
the way he could in his Stanford classroom. ''I've tried to act on a passion for
improving nonprofits,'' he said. ''The leverage you get from improving how an
organization works by how it operates is greater than how much money you give to
it.''

His online students have the opportunity to watch the courses whenever and as
often as they like over the week that the class is live. At the end of each
week, the students will be given assignments, some done individually, others
through small groups formed online. Then they move on to the next class in the
course.

Mr. Pagaduan, who works for the World Wildlife Fund, said he hoped to gain the
skills to move up in the organization. But he said he also thought Mr. Brest's
course could help him start a nonprofit group aimed at teaching local reporters
more about environmental reporting.

What made the course possible, though, was its flexibility, because his job --
working on projects involving water and watersheds -- took him to rural parts of
his country for weeks at a time. He said he also liked that the courses were
free and he hoped to take all seven. (Ms. Tyson said she was not being paid for
her role, but teachers were paid. Mr. Dabbagh declined to say how much.)

Ms. Ganesh said her small hospital in India serves patients within a 120-mile
radius, and it includes a grade school and a nursing school.

''We just graduated 19 nurses, which is a huge accomplishment,'' said Ms.
Ganesh, who signed up for five of the seven courses. ''But when I approach a
corporate donor, they tell me Bill and Melinda Gates want me to be training
millions. But we don't have the infrastructure to do that.''

She said most of the hospital's funding comes in small donations from church
groups in the United States and from bequests. This year, though, the hospital
received a grant from the United States Agency for International Development
that bought a mobile clinic to serve patients in the field.

As for success from a teacher's perspective, Ms. Jackley said she would be
gratified if her course helped some students gain the confidence to start their
own ventures the way she did with Kiva.

''I'm excited about the power of this to do that far and wide,'' she said. ''I
don't have a number of students in mind, but I'd consider it a success if people
do something they've dreamed of doing.''

(She said that she, too, had been worried that the course would be static and
boring but was pleased that the final version moved briskly.)

Measuring whether Mr. Dabbagh's money and Philanthropy University as a whole are
a success is more challenging. The goal, after all, was to make nonprofit
leaders and social entrepreneurs better at running their organizations, which
were often in challenging environments where success or failure would depend on
multiple and competing factors.

At first, Mr. Dabbagh said, he wanted to see whether anyone would sign up. The
initial target was to get a few thousand students at the start. When 200,000
people enrolled in the first month, that confirmed Mr. Dabbagh's belief that
there was a need.

Beyond that, the initial measures involve increasing the completion rate of the
MOOCs to around 20 percent from the single-digit completion rates in the
industry. They are relying on higher production values as well as the star power
of the teachers.

People who complete all seven courses also receive a certificate in social
sector leadership from the Haas School.

''The number of people whose lives are improved by this depends on the number of
N.G.O. leaders who get involved and complete the courses,'' Ms. Tyson said,
using the abbreviation for a nongovernmental organization. ''That helps them do
their job more sustainably, efficiently and better.''

By 2020, Mr. Dabbagh said, his goal is to have had an impact on 100 million
people through hundreds of thousands of people who have taken Philanthropy
University courses.

Ms. Ganesh's measure of success is easier to quantify. She wants to learn what
development officers at larger nonprofit organizations take for granted -- the
art of reaching out to corporate donors. ''I need to know how to set up a
meeting -- how do I get these people's email addresses?'' she said. ''I'm hoping
the course will give me a tool kit.''

She added: ''We all want to know what the magic formula is. How do I raise more
money?''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/your-money/online-university-helps-philanthrop
ic-groups-and-their-leaders.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amr Al-Dabbagh, a Saudi businessman and philanthropist, has
helped develop online courses on how to be a better philanthropist. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY PHILIPPE THIRION)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (93%); CHARITIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%);
FOUNDATIONS (90%); DISTANCE LEARNING (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%);
ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); RURAL HEALTH (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS
(89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS
(78%); CURRICULA (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (76%); FAMILY
COMPANIES (74%); FAMILY (74%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (73%); MICROFINANCE (73%);
US PRESIDENTS (72%); WILDLIFE (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%);
ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); AGRICULTURE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

The Latest on Travel in Central Europe

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Travel Desk; UPDATE; Pg.

LENGTH: 1101 words


A sense of normalcy has returned to Budapest's Keleti rail station. The tent
camp and thousands of migrants who jammed the area in September are gone -- all
that remains is an empty Migration Aid office. But while steps have been
effective in controlling the flow of migrants who flooded parts of Europe from
war-torn areas in the Middle East, Asia and Africa, some restrictions remain in
place and the situation is constantly evolving.

On Friday, for example, Hungary announced it would close its border with Croatia
to migrants although border crossings will remain open. Precisely what that
means for travelers remains to be seen.

Air travel has not been affected by the migrant crisis in Central Europe, but on
the ground diligence is needed. While normally passports would not be required
within the Schengen zone of the European Union, which allows for open travel
within the region, authorities in Germany, Austria and several other E.U.
countries are now checking them as part of emergency measures to control the
flow of migrants. Security checks on some trains and at some borders are
resulting in delays. The situation is fluid, so it is best to check with rail
and country-specific websites, many of which are listed below, to get the most
up-to-date information on delays or rail routes that are not running.

''No one can really say on Wednesday the 15th you have to avoid this border
crossing,'' said Sigrid Pichler, manager of public relations for the Austrian
Tourist Office in New York. ''It is very random.''

And, whether you are traveling by car or rail, it is best to have your passport
at the ready -- just like the old days before the European Union; you just won't
get a stamp.

Germany and Austria

Border controls introduced by the German Federal Police on Sept. 13 will remain
in place at least through the end of October, officials in the country's
Ministry of the Interior announced this week. People crossing the border should
be prepared to be stopped and asked for passports and visas.

''You should have your documents ready. You should expect to be pulled out. It
doesn't matter if you're on holiday from Italy,'' said Lisa Häger? press
spokeswoman in Germany's Federal Ministry of the Interior, adding that the
border is not closed and waits are not hours and hours.

Border controls that have been implemented are not permanent, and not every car
passing through them is stopped, officials said. They work more like sobriety
checkpoints in the United States where traffic is slowed and some cars are
pulled out for inspection.

Officials in Austria say roughly 5,000 to 8,000 migrants are crossing into the
country daily, but that there is not a large impact on tourists. Two spots where
they may be noticed by tourists is at train stations in Vienna and, more so, at
the train station in Salzburg, where bottlenecks develop as migrants wait for
their next move. Train service between Salzburg, Austria, and Freilassing,
Germany, which had been halted at the height of the crisis, is running, but
long-distance service to Munich remains suspended and regional service
disrupted. For the most up-to-date information check the Austria rail website.
Detailed information on rail service in Germany is available on the Deutsche
Bahn website.

For those traveling by car across borders in Austria, the Austrian Automobile
Association has real-time information and daily updates on areas where there are
delays. The information is only in German, but a Web translator like Google
Translate will make the information accessible. The site has details about what
is happening on the borders of Germany, Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia and Czech
Republic, in some cases with details on wait times.

Although it is not in a tourist area, officials cautioned drivers to avoid
crossing into Austria from Hungary at Nickelsdorf because it is a migrant
transit point with delays and congestion.

''There are other border crossings further south,'' Ms. Pichler said. ''Granted
it will take you out of your way a little bit, but you don't have to use that.''

However, she said, the situation at border crossings is unpredictable.

''One day it can be good, the other day it can be bad,'' she said. ''From one
day to the other we don't necessarily know how many refugees will be coming
through a crossing. They are expecting the number to go down because it is
getting colder.''

Hungary

Hungary's decision to close its border with Croatia does not mean it is shutting
things down entirely. The closure is along what is known as the ''green
border,'' and razor wire now creates a barrier along the border.

Hungary took the same action on its border with Serbia recently, and in that
case migrants caught crossing the ''green border'' or tampering with the border
fence were to be arrested. The official border crossings are reported to be
open.

Hungarian officials say that despite the flood of migrants, personal safety and
the safety of property remains just as high in Hungary as it has been at any
time in recent years.

Serbian and Hungarian railways report that international rail traffic between
the two countries is currently operating on schedule.

The Hungarian National Railway maintains up-to-date information on its website
about route disruptions. According to current information, the Budapest-Munich
railjet trains are running only between Budapest and Salzburg because of border
controls, with service disrupted on the EuroNight night-train lines. Hungarian
authorities suggest checking the Hungarian National Police website and the
Hungarian National Railway website before traveling to the country. Both
websites provide information in English.

The key to traveling through the region is to check for changes. The situation
with the migrants and the countries they are transiting remains fluid, and
changes with rail service and at borders can happen quickly.

''You just have this domino thing hanging out there, and the moment someone
pulls the plug this will travel through the region quickly, and it could be a
big mess for tourists,'' said Martin Weiss, a spokesman for the Austrian Foreign
Ministry.

For additional information:

Roads:

Austrian Automobile Association:
oeamtc.at/portal/situation-an-den-grenzen+2500+1635286 (Information in German
only.)

Germany: adac.de/reise_freizeit/verkehr

Croatia: hak.hr/de

Slovenia: amzs.si/en/768/Traffic_report.aspx

Hungary: police.hu

Rail:

Austrian rail information: oebb.at/en/index.jsp

Croatia rail information: hzpp.hr/en

German rail information: bahn.de/p_en/view

Hungary rail information: mavcsoport.hu/en




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/travel/the-latest-on-travel-in-central-europe.
html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BORDER CONTROL (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); DELAYS &
POSTPONEMENTS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); RAIL
STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); EUROPEAN MIGRANT CRISIS (78%);
TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (75%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (75%);
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (70%);
FEDERAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); TOURISM (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (94%); AFRICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES
(92%); HUNGARY (92%); ASIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); AUSTRIA (90%); MIDDLE
EAST (90%); CROATIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Review: In 'Unseamly,' a Woman Takes On an Apparel Tycoon

BYLINE: By ANDY WEBSTER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 438 words


A ''Rashomon'' about sexual harassment, Oren Safdie's thought-provoking
''Unseamly,'' now at Urban Stages, is about the elusive, selective nature of
memory in the age of Dov Charney, the ousted chief executive of American
Apparel, and the fashion photographer Terry Richardson. Before the show begins,
we see a young woman onstage in a smart blue mini-dress and black boots,
spinning idly in an office armchair while a wall video montage (by Nicholas
Blade Guldner) presents a flurry of glossy glamorous images: cars, cityscapes, a
dapper gentleman.

The woman, Malina (Gizel Jimenez), is meeting a lawyer, Adam (Tommy Schrider),
in hopes of pursuing a lawsuit against her former employer, Ira Slatsky
(Jonathan Silver). Hired at 17, she worked for Ira, a clothing manufacturer, for
over two years. Hoping she might appear in his famously salacious billboards,
she entered a relationship fraught with blunt chauvinism and blithely brazen
demands. Or so she says. The fastidious Adam is initially skeptical about taking
on her case.

Cue to a flashback of Malina's job interview and the grand arrival of Ira,
bathed in spotlight and striding down an aisle, attired solely in matching pink
slip-on shoes and underwear. Ira is a garrulous river of innuendo, speaking
graphically about body parts and sexual acts as he dresses himself. Within
minutes, he is photographing her with his cellphone and presenting her with a
gift: a vibrator. On her 18th birthday, they attend New York Fashion Week, and
in a hotel he lunges for the kill. Despite her initial resistance, they share an
ambiguous, tastefully staged dance of erotic engagement set to a disco beat.

In he-said, she-said, he-said recollections, the characters have flaws and
merits. Malina is a gullible Southern Californian who finds inner strength; Adam
recounts his crumbling marriage and sexual abuse he experienced as a child; Ira
cites his own support of hardworking immigrants at his company. Needless to say,
in Ira's account, Malina is the seducer. Sometimes one character interrupts
another with an opposing perspective.

The show, under Sarah C. Carlsen's direction, sails smoothly, and the cast --
especially Mr. Silver, who originated his role in a Montreal production in 2014
-- is uniformly sturdy. A late passage in which Adam, dripping with sarcasm,
describes the media firestorm certain to attend Malina's lawsuit, leaves a
bitter aftertaste. But not as much as the awareness that the issues in
''Unseamly'' aren't likely to disappear anytime soon.

''Unseamly'' continues through Nov. 1 at Urban Stages, Manhattan; 212-868-4444,
theatermania­.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/theater/review-in-unseamly-a-woman-takes-on-an
-apparel-tycoon.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXUAL HARASSMENT (90%); WOMEN (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); APPAREL MFG
(77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%);
PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); RECRUITMENT
& HIRING (74%); LITIGATION (74%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%);
PHOTOGRAPHY (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES
(57%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: DOV CHARNEY (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (53%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing | Europe; Turkey: Jets Shoot Down a Drone

BYLINE: By CEYLAN YEGINSU

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 319 words


ISTANBUL -- Turkish fighter jets shot down a drone aircraft close to the Syrian
border on Friday after it violated Turkey's airspace, the military said in a
statement.

''An aerial vehicle of unknown origin was detected inside our airspace on the
Syrian border,'' the statement said, adding, ''Our aircraft on patrol mission on
the border fired and shot down the vehicle within the rules of engagement.''

Since Russia began its military intervention in Syria on Sept. 30 with a series
of airstrikes, Turkey has complained several times of incursions by Russian
aircraft into its airspace. The Russians have said that the incursions were
unintentional, but NATO, of which Turkey is a member, has moved to bolster the
alliance's defenses.

News agencies in Russia reported on Friday that the aircraft was not Russian.
However, Reuters quoted an anonymous United States official as saying that
American officials suspected that it was Russian.

In Moscow, the Defense Ministry said that all of its warplanes operating in
Syria had returned safely to base and that its drones were conducting aerial
reconnaissance ''as usual.''

''All airplanes of the Russian aviation group in the Syrian Arab Republic have
returned to the Hmeimim air base after accomplishing their combat tasks,'' Maj.
Gen. Igor Konashenkov, the Defense Ministry spokesman, told reporters on Friday,
according to the Interfax news agency.

Turkey has in the past brought down several drones operated by the Syrian Air
Force, which is loyal to the country's embattled president, Bashar al-Assad.

The last time Turkey shot down an aircraft on its border with Syria was in May,
when the military claimed that a Syrian warplane had violated its airspace in
the eastern region of Hatay. Syrian state television said the Turkish fighter
jets had shot down a drone.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/europe/turkey-drone-syria-border.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (90%); NEWS REPORTING
(90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS
(90%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); BOMBINGS
(78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%);
ARMED FORCES (73%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

CITY: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%)

COUNTRY: SYRIA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); TURKEY (94%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

East Timor Inquiry Requested

BYLINE: By JACK KERR

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 427 words


The Palestinian soccer federation has formally requested that FIFA investigate
the eligibility of seven Brazilian-born players fielded by East Timor in their
World Cup qualifying match last week.

The teams played a 1-1 tie in the Timorese capital, Dili, last Thursday, with
one of East Timor's seven naturalized Brazilians scoring the home team's goal.
The result hurt the Palestinian team's chances of advancing to the final round
of Asian qualifiers for the 2018 World Cup in Russia.

In a letter addressed to FIFA's acting general secretary, Markus Kattner, the
Palestinian Football Association claims East Timor fielded seven players who did
not comply with FIFA citizenship regulations.

Under FIFA rules, a player may be eligible to represent a country if he was born
there, has lived there for five years as an adult, or has parents or
grandparents from there. Timor has no national league to attract professional
players, and while it shares a common language with Brazil (Portuguese), links
such as migration are limited. Yet nearly 20 Brazilian-born players are now
listed as having a Timorese citizenship.

The letter to FIFA is signed by Susan Shalabi Molano, a senior member of the
Palestinian Football Association and a member of the Asian Football
Confederation's executive committee. The president of the Timorese federation,
Francisco Kalbuadi Lay, is also an A.F.C. executive committee member.

Molano said she was unaware of any of East Timor's other recent opponents making
similar complaints.

In a news conference this week, East Timor's Brazilian coach, Fernando
Alcântara, expressed delight at how his team had been able to match the
Palestinian team's ability. When asked what part recruitment had played in this,
he deflected the question and repeated a previous answer about his side's
improved strength, preparation, mentality and strategy.

Team unity has been an issue, however. There has been ongoing concern about the
Timorese being unfairly treated in the team; the captain Anngisu Barbosa did not
play the team's two most recent games, despite being in Dili. And before the
Palestinian match, East Timor's native-born players bunked in a local sports
center while the Brazilians stayed in a budget hotel around the corner. The
players were moved together to a hotel before a subsequent match against
Malaysia.

East Timor lost to Malaysia, 1-0, and after a promising start to its qualifying
campaign now sits at the bottom of its group.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/soccer/palestine-protests-east-timors-u
se-of-brazilian-players.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES
(90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); FIFA WORLD CUP (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS
(90%); SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES
(73%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (71%); CITIZENSHIP (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); LIMITED
& SELECT SERVICE HOTELS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (94%)

CITY: DILI, TIMOR-LESTE (90%)

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (97%); TIMOR-LESTE (94%); MALAYSIA (90%); PORTUGAL (79%);
RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Kenneth D. Taylor, Guardian Envoy in Iran, Dies at 81

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN; Daniel E. Slotnik contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 802 words


Kenneth D. Taylor, the Canadian ambassador who helped shelter six Americans
after militants overran the United States Embassy in Tehran in 1979 and who then
helped spirit them out of Iran, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 81.

His wife, Pat Taylor, who helped Mr. Taylor shelter the Americans in their home
in Tehran, said the cause was colon cancer. He lived in Manhattan.

Mr. Taylor always insisted that he had done nothing extraordinary, preferring to
characterize the episode as simply a triumph of Canadian diplomacy. He was
nonetheless hailed as a hero in both Canada and the United States, where he was
awarded the Congressional Gold Medal in 1981.

When revolutionaries stormed the embassy on Nov. 4, 1979, taking more than 60
Americans hostage, nothing in Mr. Taylor's background suggested that he was
prepared for the potentially dangerous mix of espionage and intrigue that would
follow. For much of his career he had acted as a trade commissioner, spending
time at the Canadian consulate in Detroit.

But he was thrust into the thick of the crisis when a group of Americans managed
to flee the embassy's 27-acre compound and desperately sought refuge. Five were
allowed into Britain's diplomatic compound before being asked to leave,
apparently because of security concerns.

But one American, Bob Anders, was able to reach, by telephone, John Sheardown,
the head of Canada's immigration section in Tehran. Without consulting officials
in Ottawa, Mr. Sheardown and Mr. Taylor began working out a plan to shelter Mr.
Anders and four other Americans in their official residences.

''He took a great risk,'' said Malcolm McKechnie, a retired Canadian diplomat
and friend of Mr. Taylor's. ''But he made the decision to take in the Americans
immediately.''

The Americans spent more than two months holed up in the diplomats' homes
fighting boredom. After a sixth American appeared, four were in Mr. Sheardown's
residence and two in Mr. Taylor's as a plan was hatched to steal them out of the
country.

With Canada winding down its diplomatic presence in Tehran, Mr. Taylor favored
issuing the Americans Canadian passports and mixing them in with other Canadians
who were departing Iran. The Canadian government agreed to the plan.

Meanwhile, the Central Intelligence Agency was devising a much more elaborate
escape plan. Tony Mendez, a C.I.A. agent, and a forger, who has never been
identified, were to enter Iran posing as Canadian producers of a science fiction
movie in the works called ''Argo.'' The Americans, pretending to be Canadian
film crew members, would then leave with them.

The American plan was initially met with little enthusiasm in the Canadian
government or at the Canadian Embassy.

''Mendez changed the scenario,'' Mr. Taylor told the historian Robert Wright for
the 2011 book ''Our Man in Tehran,'' which recounts Mr. Taylor's role in the
affair. ''He had them as filmmakers, and we had them as nutritionists.''

But the ''Argo'' plan won out, and the hostages were shepherded to the airport
and escaped to the United States on Jan. 28, 1980.

Mr. Taylor and the remaining Canadian diplomats closed the embassy and left for
Denmark that evening.

Ben Affleck's hit film ''Argo,'' a thriller released in 2012, was based on the
episode, though it took liberties with events and was criticized in Canada as
underplaying the Canadians' role. The Canadian actor Victor Garber played Mr.
Taylor. The movie won the Oscar for best picture.

Mr. Taylor was portrayed by Gordon Pinsent in a 1981 Canadian television film,
''Escape From Iran: The Canadian Caper.''

When the escape became known to the public, the participants became celebrities
in both Canada and the United States. Mr. Taylor told The Toronto Star that for
several years afterward, taxi drivers in New York, recognizing him from news
coverage by his nimbus of curly hair, refused to let him pay for rides.

Ralph E. Lean, a Toronto lawyer and friend of Mr. Taylor's, said in an interview
that when he and Mr. Taylor traveled the world on golf trips, it was routine for
Americans to approach and thank him for his role in the crisis.

Kenneth Douglas Taylor was born on May 10, 1934, in Calgary, Alberta. He earned
a bachelor's degree at Victoria College of the University of Toronto and a
master's in business from the University of California, Berkeley.

Mr. Taylor was the Canadian consul general in New York before retiring from the
foreign service in 1984. He was later an executive with Nabisco Brands and RJR
Nabisco and a political risk consultant.

Mr. Sheardown, his collaborator in the hostages' escape, died in 2013.

Mr. Taylor, who died at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center,
learned of his colon cancer in August. Besides his wife, he is survived by a
son, Douglas, and two grandchildren.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/middleeast/kenneth-d-taylor-guardian-env
oy-in-iran-dies-at-81.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kenneth D. Taylor in Paris after leaving Iran in 1980. He cast
his actions as a triumph of Canadian diplomacy, not heroism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); DIPLOMATIC
SERVICES (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); INTELLIGENCE
SERVICES (70%); ESPIONAGE (68%); IMMIGRATION (64%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY
FILMS (60%); MOVIE FILMING (56%); COLORECTAL CANCER (56%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); DETROIT,
MI, USA (79%); OTTAWA, ON, CANADA (58%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (97%);
IRAN (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

The Hangout as Performance Art

BYLINE: By KATIE BARRY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 472 words


The French street artists Laurent Boijeot, 34, and Sébastien Renauld, 33, are
living on the streets of New York for 30 days, with their own suite of
furniture. Starting on 125th Street, they have been snaking down Broadway to the
Financial District carrying white pine tables, chairs, bedding and suitcases
south nearly five blocks each day.

But they want to be very clear about one thing: They view it as art, not a
statement in any way on homelessness.

''We are paid to sleep outside on our own free will,'' Mr. Boijeot said. ''To
talk at all about homelessness would be unfair.''

The artists, together known as Boijeot Renauld, are working in collaboration
with Brooklyn Street Art, a blog that supports urban creatives, and are also
funding the project with grants and with money earned from their furniture
design company, 2M26. Their mission is to encourage New Yorkers to slow down,
enjoy a cup of coffee, talk to someone new and maybe even take an afternoon nap.

At night, they sleep in beds set up on the street. They shower at the homes of
strangers turned friends, and wash their linens at close-by laundromats.

Coffee, made in a Moka Express coffeepot on a camping stove, is accompanied by a
copious number of hand-rolled cigarettes, often shared with passersby who stop
to engage the men in conversation or try out their chairs. Some people even stop
by with food, like the homemade pasta with ragu offered by the NBC anchor Harry
Smith.

''My wife made it for them -- it's really the best,'' Mr. Smith said Wednesday
in Herald Square, dropping in on his way to buy golf clubs. ''We met up in my
neighborhood. These guys are very addictive. The longer you spend with them, you
really start to tell stories. People sit down. What happens next is, we're all
in a conversation. You can't believe how many New Yorkers speak French!''

Outside Zabar's, on the Upper West Side, they were treated to smoked salmon,
bagels and cream cheese. Outside the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints
on West 65th street, they were offered a chance to get baptized. Further south,
they were given pommes frites and knishes from a street vendor. The opera singer
Dan Cory serenades them regularly with Carmen classics. A violinist entertained.
Newlyweds posed for photos on a bed.

Dozens of security guards have suggested that they move along, even threatening
to call the police, but they insist they are not there to make trouble. They
were moved quickly through Times Square because of pushy security personnel.

''Times Square is not the best place for interactions, but it was important for
us to go through it,'' Mr. Boijeot said. ''I got to take a nap with Snoopy, but
I prefer Pocahontas,'' he quipped of the costumed characters. ''Maybe Minnie
Mouse or Chewbacca.''

He did have one final question: ''What is a desnuda?''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/nyregion/broadway-street-art-performance-furni
ture-french-artists.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); STREET ART (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY
(85%); RELIGION (84%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FURNITURE & FURNISHINGS
(72%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS
(63%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Steele Maintains Lead

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | GOLF; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 61 words


Brendan Steele continued to lead the Frys.com Open in Napa, Calif. He shot a
two-under-par 70 -- seven shots higher than the opening round -- to finish the
second round with a two-shot lead over Will Wilcox (67), Jhonattan Vegas (71),
Graham DeLaet (68) and Harold Varner III (70). Rory McIlroy struggled to make
putts and was six shots behind after shooting a 71.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/golf/steele-maintains-lead.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%)

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (72%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sports Briefing | Hockey

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 53 words


â-  Leo Komarov scored two late goals, and Toronto beat the host Columbus Blue
Jackets, 6-3, to give Mike Babcock his first win as coach of the Maple Leafs.

â-  Jordan Staal and Kris Versteeg each had a goal and two assists, and the
Carolina Hurricanes handed the Red Wings their first loss of the season, 5-3, in
Detroit.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBUS BLUE JACKETS (84%); CAROLINA HURRICANES (56%); DETROIT
RED WINGS (56%)

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (66%)

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); OHIO, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (66%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Tar Heels Face Charges

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BRIEFING | COLLEGE FOOTBALL;
Pg. 4

LENGTH: 104 words


North Carolina cornerbacks M. J. Stewart and Mike Hughes face misdemeanor
assault charges linked to an altercation near the Chapel Hill campus earlier
this month. Stewart, a sophomore who has started every game for the Tar Heels
this season, turned himself in and was released on an unsecured bond Thursday
night, according to an arrest report. Hughes, a freshman reserve, was arrested
before being released on bond, according to police arrest reports. The
university announced the two were suspended from all team-related activities for
a violation of team rules, sidelining them from Saturday's game against Wake
Forest.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/ncaafootball/2-tar-heels-face-charges.h
tml

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (90%); MISDEMEANORS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); CRIMINAL
ASSAULT & BATTERY (88%); BAIL (88%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

For a Cubs Rookie, a Series to Remember

BYLINE: By VICTOR MATHER

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 612 words


Jorge Soler, the Chicago Cubs' rookie right fielder, did not just have a great
division series against the St. Louis Cardinals. He had one of the greatest
postseason series in history.

A Cuban defector, Soler signed with the Cubs in 2012 on a nine-year, $30 million
contract. After a good 24-game cameo in 2014, he was handed the starting job
this spring at age 23. He was rated as the team's third best prospect going into
the season by Baseball America behind third baseman Kris Bryant and shortstop
Addison Russell.

But based on his regular-season performance, Soler seemed unlikely to be a
playoff star this year. He hit .262 with 10 home runs and missed two separate
monthlong stretches with a sprained ankle and a strained abdomen muscle.
Baseball-Reference actually gave him a negative wins above replacement score for
the year, mostly because of a poor defensive rating.

But in the division series, the Cardinals could not seem to get him out. In 13
plate appearances, he was 4 for 7 with six walks. Two of the hits were home
runs.

Cubs Manager Joe Maddon opted for the left-hander Kyle Schwarber in right field
for Game 1, which the Cubs lost. Soler drew a walk as a pinch-hitter.

In Game 2, with the lefty Jaime Garcia pitching for St. Louis, the right-handed
Soler started and hit a two-run homer that put the Cubs up by 5-1 in game they
eventually won, 6-3. He added another two-run shot in Game 3. In both games he
batted four times and did not make an out.

Soler finally came back to earth at the plate in Game 4, the clincher, going 0
for 3 with another walk. But he made perhaps the defensive play of the series,
throwing a bullet that nailed Tony Cruz at the plate in the sixth inning to keep
the score tied at 4-4.

Curiously, despite his big series, Soler never played a full game. He was
replaced in right in the seventh inning of Game 2 and removed in late
double-switches in Games 3 and 4.

Soler's on-base plus slugging in the series was 2.341. Baseball-Reference
requires 18 plate appearances or seven hits plus walks to qualify as a
statistical leader in a series. By that measure, Soler's series was the fourth
greatest ever.

Two of those that rank above him are justly famous. In the 1928 World Series,
Lou Gehrig was 6 for 11 with six walks and four home runs for a 2.433 O.P.S. in
an easy sweep of the Cardinals. (His teammate Babe Ruth was 10 for 16 with three
homers, for a top 10 series of his own.)

In a three-game sweep of the Angels in the 2007 division series, David Ortiz of
the Red Sox tallied a 2.418 O.P.S., going 5 for 7 with six walks and two home
runs.

But ranking first, by this metric at least, is the mostly forgotten American
League Championship Series by the journeyman outfielder Gary Roenicke of the
Orioles. In 10 plate appearances, Roenicke was 3 for 4 with five walks, a
hit-by-pitch and a home run, giving him an on-base average of .900, a slugging
average of 1.750 and a record O.P.S. of 2.650. He scored four runs and had a
team-leading four R.B.I., but lost out on the Most Valuable Player Award to
starter Mike Boddicker, who had a 14-strikeout shutout in Game 2. The Orioles
won the World Series, but Roenicke was 0 for 7.

The Cubs certainly do not lack for big hitters this year. Schwarber also had a
big series, going 5 for 10 with two homers, and Anthony Rizzo had two homers as
well. Bryant, the team's best hitter along with Rizzo this year, underachieved a
bit in the four-game series, but did have a home run and would not figure to
remain silent for long.

If Soler puts up anything like his division series numbers in the next round,
the Cubs will have a formidable lineup to face the Mets' aces.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/baseball/cubs-jorge-soler-had-a-series-
to-remember.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Cubs' Jorge Soler, against St. Louis, had an on-base plus
slugging percentage of 2.341. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF ROBERSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS
(77%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); SPORTS INJURIES (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%);
ATHLETES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (91%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Review: 'Social Dance 9-12: Encounter,' Up Close and Personal

BYLINE: By BRIAN SEIBERT

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 444 words


A performer, nearly close enough to touch, stares into your eyes. As her
expression morphs, registering flirtation, affection, astonishment, hurt,
distrust, you might wonder to what extent those changes are reactions to the
face the performer is watching: yours. It is a thought prompted by the muscles
of your own face, which seem compelled to mirror hers.

This social interaction is the core encounter of ''Social Dance 9-12:
Encounter,'' a mostly engrossing exercise choreographed by Moriah Evans that had
its debut at Danspace Project on Thursday. Audience members are seated on
cushions on all four sides of the performance area, on the same level as seated
dancers, and during the hourlong performance, the six dancers mingle, going from
person to person.

You can watch an encounter across the way, imagining the expressions of a
performer whose face you can't see by its reflection, so to speak, in the face
of a spectator. Or the intimate encounter might be happening right next to you,
until the performer's gaze wanders and snags yours, trapping you, even as you
might notice, in your peripheral vision, something potentially more interesting.

For there are more layers to ''Social Dance 9-12'' than just the staring
contests. The dancers -- Rashaun Mitchell, Benny Olk, Maggie Cloud, Lizzie
Feidelson, Iréne Hultman and Lydia Okrent, a striking bunch, facially and
otherwise -- pass around movement sequences. To David Watson's score of violin
and viola over a tidal drone, the dancers slowly assume bent, tilted positions.
Later, they move more wildly, jumping sideways with shimmying shoulders. Mostly
their dancing, interspersed with the audience encounters, is independent, but at
one point, they briefly coalesce into imitative pairs, the facial mirroring writ
large.

Ms. Evans is a smart, idea-driven choreographer, and ''Social Dance 9-12'' is
intelligently staged to provoke thought about choreography and social
interactions. However, as in her previous works ''Social Dance 1-8: Index'' and
''Another Performance,'' her emphasis on making her process visible leads to
some anti-theatrical dryness. At various junctures, Kathy Kaufman's lighting
dims dramatically, and the performers look at one another, as if asking ''What
next?'' But what comes next is just a slight variation on what has come before,
sometimes, as in the ending, a diminution. The ensuing disappointment is a
testament to Ms. Evans's intriguing mind and her ability to gain and hold a
viewer's attention, but it's still a disappointment.

''Social Dance 9-12: Encounter'' continues through Saturday at Danspace Project,
St. Mark's Church, Manhattan; danspaceproject.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/arts/dance/review-social-dance-9-12-encounter-
up-close-and-personal.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCERS (90%); DANCE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY
(89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Silver Trial Can Include Clinic Move, Judge Says

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 348 words


A federal judge ruled on Friday that prosecutors may introduce evidence at the
trial of Sheldon Silver, the former speaker of the New York State Assembly,
showing he took official action on behalf of a real estate developer to block a
methadone clinic from relocating near one of its buildings in Lower Manhattan.

The government has charged that Mr. Silver, whose corruption trial is scheduled
to begin on Nov. 2, had an undisclosed interest in helping the developer,
Glenwood Management. Prosecutors say Mr. Silver was receiving hundreds of
thousands of dollars in illegal payments disguised as referral fees from a law
firm to which he had directed some of Glenwood's legal business.

Mr. Silver, 71, a Democrat from the Lower East Side, has pleaded not guilty to
charges that include honest services fraud and extortion under color of official
right.

The government has accused him of collecting nearly $4 million in illegal
payments through two law firms, including the one that received Glenwood's
business. The episode involving the clinic, which ultimately did not relocate
near Glenwood's building, was one of several pieces of evidence not included in
the indictment against Mr. Silver that prosecutors had asked Judge Valerie E.
Caproni of Federal District Court to allow them to present at trial.

Lawyers for Mr. Silver, who remains an assemblyman but was forced to step down
as speaker after his arrest in January, have argued that his actions against the
clinic's move were traditional constituent service -- local business owners and
residents strongly opposed the move.

But prosecutors said Mr. Silver wanted to help Glenwood, intervening with the
relevant state agency and later taking credit for doing so. ''The charge is that
he invoked his official position as the opportunities arose,'' James McDonald, a
prosecutor, told the judge, adding that this was an opportunity to help
Glenwood.

Judge Caproni, in ruling the evidence admissible, said the defense could argue
Mr. Silver was engaged in constituent service. But ultimately, she added, ''it's
up to the jury.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/nyregion/sheldon-silver-trial-can-include-clin
ic-move-judge-says.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sheldon Silver

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EVIDENCE (90%);
SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JUDGES (90%); BRIBERY (90%);
FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INDICTMENTS (78%); LAW COURTS
& TRIBUNALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); ARRESTS (78%);
RELOCATIONS (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE
FACILITIES (72%); EXTORTION (71%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

SeaWorld to Fight Ban on Breeding Killer Whales at San Diego Habitat

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 633 words


SeaWorld plans to fight a decision by the California Coastal Commission that
bans the breeding of killer whales in captivity, a condition that the agency
attached to its approval of a multimillion-dollar expansion of the whale habitat
in San Diego.

The company said that the commission overreached its mandate when it added the
restrictions during a hearing last week. The discussion, the company said,
should have focused on land use, not animal husbandry.

The statement released on Thursday by SeaWorld Entertainment was referring to a
decision that went to the heart of one of the San Diego marine theme park's main
attractions: the 11 killer whales, or orcas, that are on display and perform
there. The commission's decision, which halted the breeding of the whales and
called into question the future of the shows, had been applauded by
animal-rights activists.

SeaWorld had sought approval for a $100 million endeavor called the Blue World
Project, which planned for a habitat with a depth of 50 feet, doubling the water
volume of the existing facility. It was expected to be open to the public in
2018.

But the Oct. 8 hearing over the expansion plans included discussions about the
captivity and capturing of the whales, with the amendment on breeding and
another one on whale transport pinned as conditions to the final approval for
the project.

''As a regulatory board charged with managing coastal development and related
land-use decisions, the Coastal Commission went way beyond its jurisdiction and
authority when it banned breeding by killer whales at SeaWorld,'' Joel Manby,
the president and chief executive of SeaWorld Entertainment, said in the
statement.

''It simply defies common sense that a straightforward land-use permit approval
would turn into a ban on animal husbandry practices -- an area in which the
Commissioners have no education, training or expertise,'' Mr. Manby said.

A spokeswoman for the commission, Noaki Schwartz, said on Friday it would have
no comment on the SeaWorld statement because it had not seen a formal complaint.

SeaWorld had said after the Oct. 8 decision that prohibiting whales from
reproducing in captivity was cruel.

In an op-ed piece published by The San Diego Union-Tribune on Thursday, Dayna
Bochco, the vice chairwoman of the coastal commission, did not address directly
the announcement that SeaWorld would pursue legal action, but said that
captivity itself is the ''primary cruelty'' and explained some of the
commission's thinking.

''While passions ran high in the hearing room, the commission's 11 to 1 vote to
add these conditions to the project was substantively grounded in Coastal Act
policies that protect marine resources and species of special biological
significance -- which surely describes orcas,'' Ms. Bochco wrote. ''These
policies are routinely applied to marine mammals in the wild, but the law does
not preclude their application to captive marine mammals.''

''This was not a power grab,'' she said.

''If SeaWorld's longevity projections are correct, the company now has about 40
years to phase out public display with its current whale collection, and plan
for a Shamu-free future.''

One of SeaWorld's biggest critics, the People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals, said the Coastal Commission acted within its expansive jurisdiction
over marine mammals, according to a report in The Union-Tribune.

''SeaWorld is blowing smoke,'' said the PETA Foundation director of animal law,
Jared Goodman. ''Although the Coastal Act focuses on protecting open spaces and
wildlife in their native state, it contains no limiting language that excludes
captive wildlife. Rather, the legislature required the Commission to protect all
resources that exist within the coastal zone, as the orcas at SeaWorld plainly
do.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/us/seaworld-to-fight-ban-on-breeding-killer-wh
ales-at-san-diego-habitat.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (94%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%);
APPROVALS (90%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); ANIMALS (89%); WILDLIFE (89%);
AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%);
MAMMALS (78%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (77%);
NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); US ENVIRONMENTAL
LAW (65%)

COMPANY: SEAWORLD ENTERTAINMENT INC (57%)

TICKER: SEAS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS
(57%)

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

What Angus Deaton Is Telling Congress

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 390 words


Angus Deaton, this year's winner of the Nobel in economic science, was honored
for his rigorous and innovative use of data -- including the collection and use
of new surveys on individuals' choices and behaviors -- to measure living
standards and guide policy.

Reliable data is essential for policy makers. But for years, Congress has cut,
frozen or shortchanged the budgets of most of the nation's 13 main statistical
agencies.

House Republicans, for example, have been especially scornful of the decennial
census, the nation's most important statistical tool, and the related
questionnaire, the American Community Survey. They have placed prohibitive
constraints on the Census Bureau, including a mandate that it spend no more on
the 2020 census than it spent on the 2010 census, despite inflation, population
growth and technological change.

Republicans have also proposed making the community survey voluntary -- a move
that would diminish the survey's value by condoning nonparticipation, which
increases cost and reduces accuracy. Even if the proposals go nowhere, the noise
generated by their supporters is enough to persuade some people not to
participate.

The census is not the only target. The budget for the Bureau of Labor Statistics
has been flat or falling for several years, forcing the agency to end surveys on
mass layoffs, international labor comparisons, and employment in alternative
energy. It has had to curtail quarterly data collection on employment and wages.

Unless the labor bureau's budget is increased, even the American Time Use Survey
-- the only government survey of how Americans spend their time outside work --
may be curtailed or ended. The time-use survey, which was begun in 2003,
provides the type of novel data Mr. Deaton used in his research.

The list of cutbacks goes on. Budgets to compile statistics on the economy,
energy and health have failed to keep pace with inflation since 2010, while
budgets for statistical efforts covering agriculture, crime, education and
transportation are lower in real terms now than they were five years ago.

Congress's disdain for federal statistics divorces policy making from empirical
evidence. Financing for federal data needs to be increased.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/opinion/nobel-winner-prizes-data-that-congress
-disdains.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%);
AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS &
OPINIONS (90%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LABOR
SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%);
LAYOFFS (72%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS
(52%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fantasy Sports Sites' Ad Blitz Barely Tapers in Industry Crisis

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR.

Email: sandomir@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 813 words


The get-rich commercial messages of the fantasy sports leaders DraftKings and
FanDuel have inundated the airwaves as no advertising category has in recent
memory, suffocating almost any other advertiser except for the irksome
1-877-Kars4Kids band.

Since August, Draft Kings has plowed $107.5 million into commercials, and
FanDuel has paid out $85.8 million, according to iSpot.tv, which tracks
advertising spending.

In one three-week stretch during the summer, ads from the fantasy sports
companies appeared every 90 seconds on national networks. In the month that
ended Sept. 15, they outspent the pizza and beer industries in pursuit of more
people to play their contests. When their 30-second commercials are not being
shown, their names are attached to statistical features during football and
postseason baseball games.

But FanDuel and DraftKings have more than a simple, ferocious business rivalry
to contend with. Lawmakers are demanding a change to their unregulated status,
and the F.B.I. has begun an inquiry into their business practices. Do they pull
back on their advertising or continue the prodigious spending that is critical
to acquiring new customers and maintaining existing ones?

''They have no choice,'' said Howard Bragman, a crisis communications expert who
is chairman of the Fifteen Minutes public relations firm.

''Either you disappear or you thunder forward, and I think they'll thunder
forward,'' he added. ''There's no advantage in undermining your business.
Somebody else will take it. The more money they have, the more money they have
to protect themselves. Put a strong face on, move forward cautiously, and keep
advertising.''

But Jack Desachauer, a senior vice president of the public relations firm
Levick, who also specializes in helping companies cope with crises, advised a
different course.

''I'd think they'd want to dial back the advertising,'' he said. ''You don't
want to be seen as poking a stick in the eyes of the federal government or the
F.B.I. To continue with that level of unabated advertising, in every single
break of an N.F.L. game for weeks at a time, yeah, they can tone it down. And
they can save some money for their legal fees.''

FanDuel and DraftKings have turned hundreds of millions of dollars in investment
into a fierce rivalry. Their sudden rise, and extreme spending to build their
profiles and player (or gambler) rolls, has surprised even an industry veteran
like Brad Adgate, senior vice president for search at Horizon Media. But he sees
something quite familiar about the rivalry.

''There is a long history in advertising of product category wars such as cola,
beer and quick-service restaurants,'' he said. ''So that competitiveness for
marketing share is driving ad spending.''

The planned ubiquity derived from huge ad spending has enriched the companies
but has also made them easy targets for those who want them not only to admit
that they are as much about gambling as a Las Vegas sports book but also to
change the way they do business.

Members of Congress want to re-examine the 2006 federal legislation that
outlawed online poker and sports betting but allowed fantasy sports contests to
be classified as games of skill.

The New York State attorney general has opened an inquiry into the prospect that
employees of both companies won lucrative payouts based on information
unavailable to the public. And the F.B.I. has opened an inquiry into allegations
about the use of predatory tactics and the possible use of insider information
by the fantasy sports companies.

F.B.I. agents also want to know if DraftKings employees passed on proprietary
information or preyed on players in contests.

State regulators are targeting fantasy sports operators. On Thursday, the Nevada
gaming board stopped the companies from operating in the state, saying they
needed gaming licenses.

On Friday, the Illinois Gaming Board said it would seek a legal opinion on
whether the websites had violated state law.

The high profile of DraftKings and FanDuel is unlikely to change. The
advertising has done its job, as has the current burst of legal and legislative
scrutiny that has cast notoriety upon them. It is not known if the slowdown in
FanDuel and DraftKings' national ad spending -- which may be hard to believe has
occurred -- is a reaction to the crises or if they are pursuing strategies about
when to raise and lower their commercial purchases.

According to iSpot.tv, DraftKings' recent spending peaked around the start of
the N.F.L. season, while FanDuel's hit its peak earlier this month. Since the
industry crisis began in early October, FanDuel has spent $29.8 million on 5,568
airings of ads, while DraftKings has paid $15.1 million for 3,752 airings
through Oct. 15.

No one could call that level of advertising shrinking from the federal or state
regulators in the midst of a crisis.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/despite-industry-crisis-fantasy-sports-
leaders-pour-on-ads.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An ad for DraftKings, which along with its rival FanDuel has
spent nearly $45 million on advertising since early October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS (90%);
MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); SPORTS &
RECREATION EVENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); BEER & ALE
(77%); FAST FOOD (75%); BASEBALL (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%);
CRISIS MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%);
CUSTOMER RELATIONS (66%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (65%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Review: Silas Riener, Emanating Force in 'Blue Name'

BYLINE: By GIA KOURLAS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 423 words


Silas Riener, now free from the constraints of a conventional group -- he was a
member of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company from 2007 until it disbanded in
2011 -- is a rare sort of dancer, one whose body emits force, whether the
results are satiny, vigorously unyielding or somewhere in between.

In his new work, ''Blue Name,'' Mr. Riener strips his exacting strength down to
its essence in the intimate setting of the Chocolate Factory, where he performed
on Wednesday. Who, or what, is in charge? As his shoulders contract and then
billow out and he takes off in different directions, it seems as if he is
driving a car without a steering wheel.

Mr. Riener explores the power of unearthly movement, but with such proximity to
the audience that there's an added touch of confinement. ''Blue Name'' is an
uneven piece for which Mr. Riener has compiled dances created over 18 months;
wearing fitted earpieces as he did in a previous solo performed as part of
''Platform 2015: Dancers, Buildings and People in the Streets'' at Danspace
Project, he exudes a sense of solitude as he covers the length of the theater
with stiff, straight-legged brushes or, later, crosses to the back of the stage
in consecutive splits.

He wears a T-shirt over a unitard that initially appears threadbare around the
knees and crotch. Later he removes his shirt to display chest hair, nipples,
star tattoos. This costume -- cleverly designed by the choreographer with George
Venson, Reid Bartleme and Julia Donaldson -- is his second skin, a version of
Mr. Riener's body painted onto the unitard in a fabric he couldn't escape while
in the Cunningham company.

The mood changes from serene to prickly as Mr. Riener plays records --
instrumental and jazz vocals, somewhat warped -- on a portable player; they skip
on cue and soon his body follows suit, stuttering and bending forward. All the
while, Davison Scandrett's lighting creates a checkerboard design on the floor
and Mr. Riener, pulling a long piece of blue fabric across the floor, fashions
it into a turban covering not just his hair, but his face. As one passage
follows the next, ''Blue Name'' becomes a patchy series of excerpts assembled
into a dance. ''That's the end,'' he announces from the back of the stage. It
would be better if we just knew it. While Mr. Riener's gifts are prodigious, as
a choreographer he has some convincing to do.

­Silas Riener continues performances through Oct. 28 at the Chocolate Factory,
Long Island City, Queens; 718-482-7069, chocolatefactorytheater.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/arts/dance/review-silas-riener-emanating-force
-in-blue-name.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (91%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%);
ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); THEATER (75%); JAZZ & BLUES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Secular, but Feeling a Call to Divinity School

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN.

Email: sgf1@columbia.edu Twitter: @SamuelGFreedman

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ON RELIGION; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1349 words


CAMBRIDGE, Mass. --  During orientation at Harvard Divinity School here in 2013,
Angie Thurston wandered amid the tables set up by the various campus ministries.
Catholic, Methodist, Muslim -- they mostly served to reinforce the sense that
Ms. Thurston did not fit into an organized religion.

Here she was, starting her graduate studies in religion when she did not know
the definition of liturgy, had never read the Bible and could not have
identified a major theologian like Karl Barth, even if it would have won her a
fortune on ''Jeopardy!'' Yet something in organized religion hinted at an answer
to the atomized, unmoored life she led.

''I didn't feel unwelcome, but I did feel like it was a call to creativity,''
Ms. Thurston, 30, recalled of her initiation. ''I wanted to respond to what I
saw as a crisis of isolation among young people.''

She added, ''I wanted to create a meaningful community that came together based
on a shared goal rather than a shared religious creed.''

From such an unlikely beginning -- a self-described ''religious weirdo''
enrolling in an elite divinity school -- has grown a fascinating phenomenon. Now
in her final year at Harvard, Ms. Thurston is a central figure in a boomlet of
students who are secular or unaffiliated with any religious denomination,
commonly known as ''nones,'' attending divinity school. While Harvard may be the
center, nones can be found at other divinity schools around the country,
especially those inclined toward theologically and politically liberal
Protestantism, like Chicago Theological Seminary.

Two factors are driving this surge. First, the proportion of nones in the United
States has grown to about a third of all millennials, those born between 1981
and 1996, according to the Pew Research Center. Second, divinity school offers
even atheists and spiritual seekers a language of moral discourse and training
in congregational leadership. The traits appeal to nones who aspire to careers
in activism, social work, chaplaincy or community organizing rather than taking
to a pulpit.

''Nones are not entirely opposed to religious traditions, though they don't
attach to a specific one,'' said Eboo Patel, the founder and president of
Interfaith Youth Core, who has seen the trend while visiting campuses. ''No
small part of them are attracted to the search for social justice and for
spiritual meaning. And they recognize those things as the fruits of religious
tradition. So it makes sense to go to a place where you can study religious
tradition.''

Within higher education, divinity programs often stand apart from the cult of
relativism in the liberal arts and the utilitarian emphasis in professional
schools focusing on business and law, for example.

''If you were simply looking for the skills, you might go to the Kennedy School
of Government,'' said the Rev. Dudley C. Rose, the associate dean for ministry
studies at Harvard. ''And philosophy and liberal-arts fields have given up on
the project of finding a moral language, an articulation of values. That
language isn't found in many places. And when you find it, it's not easy to
abstract it. You have to connect it to a tradition.''

In Harvard's case, the influx of secular and unaffiliated students had one early
and visible pioneer, Greg M. Epstein. In 2004, while already serving as the
assistant humanist chaplain for Harvard students and staff members who are
atheist or agnostic, Mr. Epstein enrolled in divinity school. He took classes in
everything from existentialist philosophy to musicology to nonprofit
administration, and he did a practicum in ministry with a cohort of Unitarian
Universalist students, the closest thing he could find to atheists.

By the time he graduated in 2007, Mr. Epstein could see a ''trickle'' of other
humanist students entering the divinity school, and he set out to recruit more.
''I see myself like a college football coach,'' said Mr. Epstein, who comes by
the metaphor honestly as an alumnus of the University of Michigan. ''I want to
constantly be bringing in new talent.''

On campus, Mr. Epstein replaced the retiring humanist chaplain. Off campus, he
put together a community center, the Humanist Hub. In both guises, he differed
markedly from prominent atheists by adapting some of organized religion's models
of ritual, moral language and communal purpose rather than merely denouncing
belief as superstition.

Ms. Thurston, for example, applied to Harvard Divinity School specifically
because of what she knew about Mr. Epstein's work. She does not consider herself
secular; rather, she follows the precepts of the Urantia Book, a 2,000-page work
of philosophy and spirituality that has some elements of Christianity. She also
critiques terms like ''nones'' and ''unaffiliated,'' and the phrase ''spiritual
but not religious.''

''It's difficult to foster community based on negation, on saying what you
aren't,'' she said. ''To live in this soup of negation, it's just not lasting.''

The group that Ms. Thurston helped start, Harvard Religious Nones, includes
almost 70 people on its email list and regularly attracts 20 people to its
meetings, not insignificant in a divinity school with 350 students. The divinity
school also has a humanist group with about a half-dozen members.

One of her classmates, Casper ter Kuile, and a recent divinity school graduate,
Vanessa Zoltan, teach a weekly course together for about 55 people on ''Harry
Potter'' as a sacred text at the off-campus Humanist Hub. This weekend, Ms.
Thurston and her collaborator Aisha Ansano are holding a workshop about the
Harvard Religious Nones at the Parliament of World's Religions in Salt Lake
City.

Throughout the academic year, the divinity school's nones gather regularly to
sing, share personal experiences and offer support. Ms. Thurston and Mr. ter
Kuile wrote a report, ''How We Gather,'' that identified successful modern
examples of community-building, from the exercise program SoulCycle to dinner
parties in which bereaved people meet over a meal.

Ms. Zoltan typifies the portion of Harvard Divinity School students who are
avowedly secular. Growing up in suburban Los Angeles as the grandchild of
Holocaust survivors and the child of fervent atheists, she partook in Shabbat
dinners and attended a Hebrew school purely as forms of cultural affirmation.

''Our family felt like, 'God isn't just dead, but if he's real, he hates us,' ''
she recalled. ''I was raised to believe that humans are what matter. And art. We
worshiped movies and books. Our Bible was everything from Neil Simon to the
Russian novelists.''

Yet when Ms. Zoltan attended graduate school at the Wharton School of the
University of Pennsylvania for nonprofit management, she rejected the capitalist
theology there that the market is a value system. The Great Recession proved to
her, she recalled, ''Your way is wrong.''

A course in ethics, though, began to point her in an unexpected direction. She
slowly came to recognize that the people she admired most -- Gandhi, King,
Emerson, Tolstoy and Alcott -- had deep religious or spiritual lives.

''It was in the back of my head that Judaism has answers, that there were laws
and the laws were based in ethics,'' Ms. Zoltan, 33, said. ''I kept saying, 'I
should've gone to Div School,' and my boyfriend said, 'Why don't you try?' ''

During her years at Harvard, she said, she opened herself up to the possibility
of a deity. Every time, the Holocaust or the Rwandan genocide or the Syrian
civil war convinced her nothing supernatural existed.

The concept of sacredness, however, gripped her, and she sought out ways to
consecrate the secular. With a divinity school professor, Stephanie Paulsell,
she did an independent study in ''Jane Eyre'' as a holy book. Mr. Epstein and
she studied Judaic texts together in the yeshiva system of chavruta, meaning
fellowship.

''I got inspired,'' she said. ''I'd spent a lot of my 20s being disappointed by
grad school and the nonprofit world. And at Div School, people are excited. They
get Alice-in-Wonderland lost in theology. It made me happy.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/us/more-students-secular-but-feeling-a-call-tu
rn-to-divinity-schools.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Angie Thurston, the president of the Religious Nones at Harvard
Divinity School, at a campus meeting. ''Nones'' refers to the religiously
unaffiliated. (A12)
 The Religious Nones met at Harvard to share the best and worst parts of their
week. They ended the meeting by singing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SEAN PROCTOR FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS &
CHRISTIANITY (90%); SEMINARIES (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%);
THEOLOGY (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (79%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); BIBLE &
CHRISTIAN TEXTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%);
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); GRADUATE
& PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES
(71%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (66%); LIBERALISM (66%); SOCIAL JUSTICE
(63%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Quotation of the Day

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 37 words


''Luke was dead at that point.''

DANIEL IRWIN, a leader of the Word of Life Christian Church in New Hartford,
N.Y., testifying in a court hearing on why a 12-hour group beating of a church
member, Lucas Leonard, came to an end.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/pageoneplus/quotation-of-the-day.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (87%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (83%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Murph!

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL.

Email: powellm@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 872 words


The Antarctic ice shelf is in a state of collapse and planet-hunting scientists
may have spotted a vast alien array in a distant corner of the universe but
really, honestly, could we talk Daniel Murphy for a few minutes?

Let me start with a confession: Until he turned the first round of the Mets'
playoff run into the Ballad of Danny Murphy, I had cast a skeptical eye on him.
As a fielder, he's a good hitter. As a base runner, he can give you the hives.

As a hitter, he's smart and professional without sporting the on-base percentage
and power that would make him great.

Except that the sum of the parts of this 30-year-old second baseman is downright
dangerous, not to mention curiously endearing. On a team loaded with top-tier
pitching arms, a rocket-armed, escape-velocity Cuban power hitter and a fine
team captain at third base, Murphy manages to be the beating mutt-heart of the
Mets.

You've seen Mets like this one before. Ron Hunt, a long-ago second baseman,
managed to hit .275 or so with no particular speed. He specialized in being hit
by pitchers. This was a strange talent; as a kid, it struck me as weirdly cool.
Then there was Steady Ed Kranepool, a busted prospect who turned himself into a
fine and beloved pinch-hitter.

Thursday night, Murphy faced Zack Greinke, a stunningly good pitcher, and hit a
double in the first inning that put the Mets on the scoreboard and registered as
a tough jab to the Dodgers' midsection. Then, in the fourth inning, with the
Mets trailing and Jacob deGrom performing an inning-by-inning Harry Houdini
escape act, Murphy led off with a single. When Greinke walked Duda, Murphy did a
slow trot toward second base. Then he looked here and there, like a kid trying
to escape a parent's watchful eye, and bolted to third base.

A defensive shift had been on, and the Dodgers' defenders had snoozed. Murphy
slid into third base untouched. He scored the tying run on a sacrifice fly.

In the sixth inning, with the score still tied and Mets fans in a state of high
anxiety -- here I speak from close, anthropological observation of myself, my
sons and my wife -- Murphy turned on yet another Greinke pitch. His bat swept
through the zone, his top hand flashing off the bat as it whipped around his
neck. An arcing shot landed in the right-field stands. The august Dodger
pitcher, who took to walking around the back of the mound mumbling to himself,
could be forgiven for asking: Who is this pest?

When reporters tried to talk about what he did, Murphy gave credit to Lucas Duda
for eking out a walk, which was more or less the sum of the contributions of the
.111-hitting big first baseman in that playoff series.

''Zack and I were kind of dancing around all night,'' Murphy said, neglecting to
add that he ended that dance by shoving the All-Star pitcher down the
backstairs.

He had made a wreck of All-Star pitchers in this series, also hitting two homers
off Clayton Kershaw.

You don't want to fall into a deep swoon. Murphy is not the Irish-American Joe
Morgan. He's a mono focused hitter. You come into the locker room in midsummer,
and he is studying game video on his laptop. Then he slips out to do a little
more hitting in the cage. Then he's back at the computer, or picking the brain
of the batting coach.

He's scrappy, intense, and has more than a few holes in the pants of his game.
His defense combines mediocre with intensity. He takes charge of grounders and
pop-ups a more self-aware player might leave to better defenders around him.

A few weeks back, I talked to Keith Hernandez, who is a color commentator for
the Mets and in the 1980s was an even finer first baseman. He admires Murphy and
his hitting obsessions. The rest of Murphy's game can give him agita. ''Did you
see his base running last night?'' Hernandez asked after a night in which Murphy
had run the bases like a headless horseman. ''What was his thought process?

''I am tired of him saying, 'My bad, my bad.' Well, stop doing it!''

General Manager Sandy Alderson snapped off a salute to Murphy on Thursday night,
saying he essentially was a one-man offense. But the front office has signaled
that Murphy could well wear another uniform next year. He is a free agent, and
this penny-pinching franchise is seen as unlikely to spend the $30 million to
$40 million needed to re-sign him. (The Mets are fond of this game of pretend,
in which the owners, the Wilpons, tell themselves that they do business in
Milwaukee instead of in the largest and wealthiest city in the United States.)

Next year, the Mets could feature Wilmer Flores at second base, or Dilson
Herrera, a minor league prospect. It's hard to imagine, however, that a team
that looks like a playoff contender for the next few years could not make use of
a passionate hitter who can fill in at three positions.

Not to mention he comes to bat to the music of the Dropkick Murphys, a fine
Celtic punk band.

''Adjectives are going to fall short of how this all feels right now,'' Murphy
said as he took a Champagne bath Thursday night.

The hope is that Murphy can produce more high adjectival feats into early
November. And after that perhaps the Mets will chose to reward a dirty-uniformed
ballplayer with a new contract.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/baseball/daniel-murphy-wins-over-mets-f
ans-even-as-he-may-leave-them.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Keith Hernandez, the Mets broadcaster and former first baseman,
said that he admired Daniel Murphy, left, as a hitter but that other parts of
Murphy's game drove him to distraction. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN DUNN/GETTY
IMAGES) (D1)
 Daniel Murphy, left, after his home run in Game 5 of the National League
division series against the Los Angeles Dodgers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA
ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS
& RECREATION (76%); ATHLETES (75%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (93%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (59%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (53%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (53%)

COUNTRY: ANTARCTICA (73%); UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Norway Is a Model for Encouraging Electric Car Sales

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1586 words


OSLO -- Berit Nordgarden and her husband, Eivind Tellefsen, loved their
nonpolluting Nissan Leaf electric car. But they found its 85-mile battery life
too short for weekend trips to their cottage with their two young children.

So the outdoorsy couple took a deep breath and bought a second car: a Tesla
Model S luxury sedan with three times the battery range, the best of any
electric car on the market. Buying an $87,000 car was a stretch, requiring them
to refinance their primary residence, a cozy wooden home in Oslo.

But the Tesla would have been completely out of reach -- costing perhaps double
the price -- without generous subsidies and incentives that the Norwegian
government offers to encourage the adoption of e-cars.

''If there were no incentives, we couldn't have afforded it,'' said Mr.
Tellefsen, a computer engineer, as he squinted into the dazzling sun of an
autumn afternoon. ''We'd probably have bought a secondhand Skoda.''

Mr. Tellefsen and Ms. Nordgarden, along with thousands of other Norwegians, are
taking part in the world's most ambitious governmental effort to wean drivers
off fossil fuels. It is part of the effort by this country of 5.2 million people
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and meet its ambitious United Nations climate
goals.

At a time when the Volkswagen emissions scandal has helped expose the drawbacks
of Europe's heavy reliance on diesel cars, Norway has become a global model of
how to get the public to embrace electric vehicles, an experiment that is
attracting researchers and policy makers from around the world.

No other country can yet match Norway's proportion of all-electric cars. Though
still only 2 percent, the figure is double that of the runner-up, the
Netherlands, and is growing faster than anywhere else in the world. More than
one-fifth of new car sales in Norway are of electric vehicles.

Some skeptics wonder whether the Norwegian program is cost-effective, or even an
efficient way to reduce air pollutants. And some elements of the program simply
may not be replicable in other countries. But for many, Norway is showing a path
forward.

''If there's anyone in the world who should be using electric vehicles, it's
Norway,'' said Julian Marshall, an associate professor of environmental
engineering at the University of Minnesota. ''That's a place with clean
energy.''

Ms. Nordgarden said she and her husband had made do for years with their
bicycles, public transportation and a car-share service. It was the government
program that induced them to choose a Leaf over a fuel-burning car two years
ago.

''We didn't really care about cars,'' she said. ''Now it's fun.'' And going back
to a conventional automobile was out of the question, Ms. Nordgarden said:
''Driving a petrol car is like time travel back to the 1980s.''

Making Norway's project to shift away from fossil-fuel cars all the more notable
is the fact that the country is one of the world's biggest producers of oil and
natural gas. But it is also blessed with an abundance of fast rivers, allowing
it to generate virtually all of its electricity from hydropower. That makes
Norway's electricity cleaner and relatively cheap -- a further impetus for
adopting e-cars. (A country where much of the electricity is generated by
coal-fired power plants would not see as many environmental benefits from
switching to electric vehicles.)

Proponents argue that electric cars are essential for a transition to a
low-carbon economy, as they are vastly more efficient than conventional autos,
transferring about 60 percent of their energy to the wheels. That compares with
only about 20 percent for gasoline motors, which waste most of their energy in
the form of heat.

To meet climate goals, ''a large share of the new cars have to be electric,''
Lars Andreas Lunde, the deputy minister of climate and environment and a
Conservative Party politician, said in an interview. Because e-cars are more
expensive to make than ordinary cars, ''there have to be incentives,'' Mr. Lunde
said. ''It has to be more expensive to pollute than to use environmentally
friendly fuels.''

After more than a decade of government support, official projections had held
that there would be 50,000 e-cars on Norway's roads by the end of 2017. That
number, in fact, was reached this past April, and by September had grown to
66,000 all-electric cars, and an additional 8,000 gasoline-electric hybrids like
the Toyota Prius.

Rather than appealing to people's environmental conscience, Mr. Lunde said,
Norway decided to exempt e-cars from vehicle taxes that are among the highest in
the world, including a sales tax of 25 percent plus a registration tax that
averages more than $12,000, depending on vehicle weight, engine size, nitrogen
oxide pollution level and carbon dioxide emissions.

To see how the subsidies translate to the showroom, consider Norway's
best-selling electric car this year, the Volkswagen e-Golf.

At the Moller Bil Ryen Volkswagen dealership in Oslo, a standard diesel Golf
retails for about 330,000 Norwegian kroner, or about $40,000. After tax breaks,
a comparably equipped version of its electric cousin, the e-Golf, sells for
250,000 kroner, or just under $31,000.

That price advantage would be lost in neighboring Sweden, which does not offer
the same level of subsidies. There, the standard Golf would sell for less than
$30,000, while the e-Golf would be closer to $40,000.

The cost of operating a car in Norway can also include pricey parking fees, high
tolls for bridges and tunnels, and expensive ferry tickets. So e-cars were
exempted from those, too. And it doesn't hurt that fully charging a car battery
from the grid costs the equivalent of only a few dollars, while gasoline retails
in central Oslo for more than $6 a gallon.

Kasper Arnberg, 30, an Oslo psychologist who bought a Nissan Leaf two years ago,
said he and his wife, Camilla Herbern -- also a psychologist -- had been
''idealistic,'' in that environmental concerns influenced their decision to go
electric.

''But my wife made an Excel spreadsheet,'' Mr. Arnberg said. And after factoring
in tax breaks, fuel costs, tolls, parking and all, ''the Leaf came to about half
the price'' of a gasoline-powered car, he said.

Christina Bu is head of the Norwegian Electric Vehicle Association, which
advocates for both consumers and manufacturers. ''People aren't so green that
they want to pay a lot extra to buy an electric,'' she said. The Norwegian
system works, Ms. Bu said, because ''it's constructed to make the
least-polluting cars the most attractive.''

Mr. Arnberg, like many Norwegians interviewed for this article, bemoaned the
fact that the country's vehicle-charging infrastructure had not kept pace with
the number of new electric cars on the road. It is an issue that plagues other
places that have embraced e-cars, including California, where the competition
for public plug-in sites sometimes grows hostile.

Oslo now has only about 700 public charging spots, although city officials aim
to raise that to above 1,000 before the end of the year. For most people, that
means most of their charging is done at home.

City and regional governments in Norway, meantime, have started to complain of a
revenue shortfall from all the free-riding e-cars that are not paying fees and
tolls.

Mr. Lunde, the deputy climate minister, said changes to the program were
inevitable, including more power for local authorities to set rules governing
e-cars and phasing out the sales tax exemption. ''The incentives were always
meant to be temporary,'' he said, ''just until we achieved a certain market
share.''

Some critics say Norway is not getting its money's worth from the program.

Anders Skonhoft, an environmental economist at the Norwegian University of
Science and Technology, estimates that the total value of subsidies works out to
about $13,500 a year per electric car over each vehicle's life. But for all the
money Norway has put into the program, he said in an interview, the country has
cut its carbon dioxide emissions by no more than one-tenth of one percent.

If the main goal is clearing up unhealthy pollutants at the local level, Mr.
Skonhoft said, it would make more sense to discourage the use of diesel engines.
But he noted that Norway, like many other European governments, effectively
subsidizes diesel fuel by taxing it at a lower level than regular gasoline. As
for greenhouse gases, he said, it would be more effective, and cost far less,
simply to impose a carbon tax, discouraging use of traditional cars by requiring
drivers to pay more to pollute more.

Mr. Lunde acknowledged that ''there's a discussion of whether it's too
expensive.'' But, he said, ''it's difficult to criticize in economic terms,
because the value of clean air in the city center is difficult to quantify.''

Ms. Bu, of the electric vehicle association, said her group hoped that the
incentives would last long enough to change the way people think about
transportation. ''If we can continue like this until 2020, we will change the
car industry,'' she said.

And proponents say one near-term spark to e-car sales could be the Volkswagen
scandal, in which the German company outfitted 11 million cars -- including
nearly 150,000 in Norway -- with software meant to deceive emissions testers.

Mr. Lunde said some environmentally minded consumers might come to believe that
all the automakers were cheating.

''If you buy an electric, at least you're safe,'' he said. ''There are no
emissions.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/international/norway-is-global-model-
for-encouraging-sales-of-electric-cars.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC VEHICLES (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY
(91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); EMISSIONS (87%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); SEDANS
(78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); ENGINEERING (73%); CHILDREN (72%); VOLKSWAGEN
EMISSIONS SCANDAL (72%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%);
POLLUTION & ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS (70%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (69%); COMPUTER
ENGINEERING (68%); AIR POLLUTION (65%); AIR POLLUTANTS (65%); UNITED NATIONS
INSTITUTIONS (65%); CARPOOL & CARSHARE SERVICES (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

CITY: OSLO, NORWAY (90%)

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: NORWAY (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Can E-Cigarettes Save Lives?

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 865 words


Two weeks ago, I received an email from NJOY, a company that sells electronic
cigarettes. Its purpose was to introduce the Daily, a new product that NJOY
described as ''a superior e-cigarette scientifically developed to deliver
quick-and-strong nicotine satisfaction at levels close to an actual cigarette.''

One reason many adult smokers haven't switched to e-cigarettes is that most
e-cigarettes don't provide the same nicotine kick as a real cigarette. With some
42 million American adults still smoking, and 480,000 of them dying each year as
a result, this is tragic. Though nicotine is addictive, it is the tobacco that
kills.

An e-cigarette that could truly replicate the experience of smoking would
dramatically reduce -- not eliminate, but reduce -- the dangers of smoking. NJOY
claims that the Daily comes closer to that experience than anything on the
market. When I spoke to Paul Sturman, NJOY's chief executive, he emphasized not
only the nicotine aspect, but also the Daily's ''feel,'' and ''the intensity of
the hit to the back of the throat.'' Sturman added that the company's target
market is adult smokers who have tried, but rejected, e-cigarettes. He thinks
it's a huge market.

As Sturman was describing the Daily, I thought to myself, ''The tobacco-control
community is going to hate this thing.'' Most anti-tobacco advocates view
replicating the feel and satisfaction of a cigarette as an effort to
''renormalize smoking.'' And though some believe that smokers should be
encouraged to move to e-cigarettes, most refuse even to acknowledge the health
benefits of ''vaping'' over smoking.

Indeed, thanks to this vociferous opposition, an increasing number of Americans
view vaping as no safer than smoking, which is absurd. And e-cigarette
manufacturers like NJOY can't set them straight: The law giving the Food and
Drug Administration regulatory authority over tobacco products, which passed in
2009, prohibits e-cigarette companies from making reduced-harm claims unless
they jump through some near-impossible hoops. Thus, NJOY has no way to convey to
adult smokers the critical message that e-cigarettes could save their lives.

The undisputed leader of the tobacco-control community is Matt Myers, who helped
found and is the president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. Unlike many of
his anti-tobacco peers, Myers is on the record as saying that if ''responsibly
marketed and properly regulated, e-cigarettes could benefit the public health.''
But, like many others, he also fears that e-cigarettes may hook a new generation
of children on nicotine, and could lead them to start smoking. And in truth,
those fears get far more prominence in the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids'
various statements about e-cigarettes than its cautious support for them under
the right circumstances.

One thing that particularly bothers Myers about e-cigarette companies is their
advertising, which he believes employs the same tactics Big Tobacco once used to
hook youths on cigarettes. But when I noted that NJOY can't market the Daily as
a reduced-risk product, thanks to the 2009 law -- and thus had to find less
straightforward ways to induce smokers to try the product -- Myers told me that
I should blame the F.D.A., which, six years in, has yet to impose a single
regulation on e-cigarettes. ''I think the F.D.A. deserves to be pilloried,'' he
said.

He may be right about that. On the other hand, it's hardly news that government
agencies take forever to get things done -- and meanwhile, nearly half a million
smokers continue to die each year. It seems to me that if the tobacco-control
community wants to start saving lives by employing the reduced-harm strategy
that e-cigarettes offer, it needs to forget about the F.D.A. and take matters
into its own hands.

That means engaging with companies like NJOY that profess to be trying to do the
right thing. Instead of demonizing them, the tobacco control community needs to
find common ground, and come up with a set of standards -- for marketing,
manufacturing, and keeping e-cigarettes away from kids -- that both sides can
agree to. If such a deal were put in place, perhaps with state attorneys general
to oversee it, anti-tobacco advocates could talk about the reduced harm
potential of e-cigarettes with a clear conscience, without the involvement of
the federal government. They then could describe the benefits of e-cigarettes
for smokers that the companies themselves can't.

It's happened before. Two decades ago, seeing a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity
to impose real restrictions on Big Tobacco, Myers engaged in negotiations that
included the states' attorneys general -- and Steve Parrish, then a Philip
Morris executive. It was an act of tremendous courage -- Myers was pilloried
when his involvement was revealed -- but without his willingness to look the
enemy straight in the eye, Big Tobacco would never have been brought to heel.

I believe the time has come for Myers to screw up his courage again. It could be
the beginning of the end for one of the greatest scourges on earth.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/opinion/can-e-cigarettes-save-lives.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICES (97%); SMOKING (92%); TOBACCO & HEALTH
(90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%);
TOBACCO MFG (78%); SMOKING BANS (76%); ADULTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CHILDREN
(71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cubs Swept Mets, but Now Slate Is Clean

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1504 words


The Chicago Cubs staggered into Citi Field the last time they visited the Mets,
at the end of June. They had just been swept in St. Louis by the Cardinals, and
Joe Maddon, their freethinking manager, wanted to relax them. He hired a
magician to perform in the clubhouse, and the Cubs swept the series.

The Cubs took all seven games from the Mets this season, and now the teams will
play in the best-of-seven National League Championship Series, their first
postseason meeting. The regular-season matchups mean little now.

''You know, the Cubs won 97, we won 90, and the difference in the two records
was the 0-7 that we had against the Cubs,'' Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson
said in the clubhouse at Dodger Stadium on Thursday night, after the players had
drenched him in Champagne and beer.

''But this is a different team. The young pitching that we have has a little
more experience; the offense is better. But they're a very good team; they've
got great pitching and some outstanding young and experienced hitters as well.
It's going to be a great series. We're happy they're on their way to New York.''

A different team? You could say that. The last time the Mets played the Cubs, on
July 2, Darrell Ceciliani started in center field, Eric Campbell started in left
field, Johnny Monell was the catcher and John Mayberry Jr. was the first bat off
the bench. The Mets lost to Jake Arrieta, and Jacob deGrom punched a Gatorade
bucket in the dugout.

By the end of the month, the Mets had added center fielder Yoenis Cespedes,
promoted left fielder Michael Conforto, activated catcher Travis d'Arnaud from
the disabled list and added Kelly Johnson to the bench. David Wright returned in
August. The difference has been striking.

Though Daniel Murphy seemed to do it all by himself in the division series
clincher, the offense as a whole has been hot for a while. After July 25, the
Mets led the National League in runs, homers and slugging percentage. They will
need that firepower to match the Cubs' wrecking crew of Anthony Rizzo, Kris
Bryant, Kyle Schwarber, Jorge Soler and more.

The Cubs bruised the Cardinals for 10 home runs in a four-game division series
victory, after homering twice off the Pittsburgh ace Gerrit Cole in the wild
card game.

''It's obviously been part of Theo's strategy to look for guys with a little
more power,'' the Cubs owner Tom Ricketts said, referring to his baseball
operations president, Theo Epstein. ''Power is something that's been declining
in M.L.B. over all. But he's found the right guys. The key is they're loose,
relaxed, they're looking for their pitch and taking advantage of it.''

The Cubs' emphasis shows in the makeup of their roster. The lineup is young and
largely built from within, while the pitching staff was assembled with one
pricey free agent (the Game 1 starter, Jon Lester) and other teams' castoffs.

That includes the ace, Arrieta, who often struggled in Baltimore before the Cubs
traded for him in 2013. They let him break out his deceptive crossfire delivery
again, and Arrieta has used it to dominate the league.

The Mets have built around their own power pitchers, with deGrom the ace but
Matt Harvey, the Game 1 starter, the marquee name. DeGrom, Harvey, Noah
Syndergaard and Steven Matz combined for a 2.99 E.R.A. against the Dodgers, and
closer Jeurys Familia retired all 16 batters he faced.

History should be on the Mets' side in this clash. They roared back to overtake
the Cubs in 1969 on the way to their first title, and clinched the N.L. East
with a victory over the Cubs in 1986 as they stormed toward their other crown.

And while ''Back to the Future 2'' decreed that the Cubs would win the 2015
World Series (against a team from Miami with an alligator mascot) there is also
this: When Familia closed out the Dodgers on Thursday, it was the Mets' first
two-inning save in the postseason since Oct. 27, 1986. That was the night Jesse
Orosco secured the Mets' last championship.

LESTER, ARRIETA AND ... The Cubs have two types of games -- those started by Jon
Lester and Jake Arrieta, and bullpen games. Their other starters in the division
series were Kyle Hendricks and Jason Hammel, and Joe Maddon does not hesitate to
remove them at the first sign of trouble. Hendricks has not thrown more than 93
pitches in any of his last 12 starts, and Hammel has gone past five innings just
once in his last eight starts.

SAME STATS, DIFFERENT STORIES Both closers, Jeurys Familia and the Cubs' Hector
Rondon, had a 1.00 WHIP (walks plus hits per inning pitched) with an earned run
average below 2.00 this season. But while Familia has stayed with the Mets since
signing from the Dominican Republic in 2007, Rondon joined the Cubs as a Rule 5
draft pick in December 2012. He was the Cleveland Indians' minor league pitcher
of the year in 2009, before Tommy John surgery in 2010 and an elbow fracture the
next year. The gamble on his health has paid off for the Cubs, who got 30 saves
in 34 chances from Rondon this season.

FEEL THE BREEZE The Cubs' hitters led the majors in strikeouts -- and so did
their pitchers. No team offense was within 100 strikeouts of the Cubs, but the
Mets, who have a power pitching staff, must be careful: The Cubs' hitters also
average the most pitches per plate appearance in the majors (3.97). The Cubs may
stick with their patient approach to try to drive up the pitch counts of the
Mets' starters, but they, too, cannot emphasize that strategy too much. The
Mets' pitchers have exceptional control, issuing the second fewest walks in the
majors.

INSURANCE PLAN When the Cubs acquired Addison Russell last summer, speculation
raged that they could offer the Mets a shortstop solution. After all, the Cubs
had Russell, Starlin Castro and Javier Baez to play short, and the Mets had a
surplus of pitching to send back. In reality, the teams never matched up --
Castro now plays second base, and Russell will miss the N.L.C.S. with a strained
left hamstring. Baez replaced him in Game 3 of the division series and homered
in the Game 4 clincher. A consensus top 10 prospect last year, Baez, 22, hit
.324 with 13 homers at Class AAA Iowa this season.

STATION TO STATION The Mets had only 51 stolen bases this season, the fewest in
the National League. That's good news for the Cubs' Jon Lester, who does not
like throwing to first and allowed a major league-high 44 steals this season.
Joe Maddon said that Lester was quick to the plate and that his preferred
catcher, David Ross, helped him control the running game better. ''The biggest
thing with Jon, I really like the fact that he is able to still maintain his
concentration at the plate,'' Maddon said. ''It's always going to be paramount.
Honestly, you can't underestimate the value of David in those moments.''

UNIFORMS The Cubs have worn their blue alternate jerseys in all three of their
road games this postseason. That jersey, somewhat oddly, includes a National
League logo patch on the right sleeve -- the only jersey in the majors that
features a league patch. The Cubs' gray pants also have a look all their own --
they come with a tiny version of the Cubs' famous bull's-eye logo, right below
the belt on the player's left side. No other team does this, either.

ALMOST PERFECT More than 40 years before their only franchise no-hitter (by
Johan Santana in 2012), the Mets' Tom Seaver nearly spun a perfect game against
the Cubs on July 9, 1969, at Shea Stadium. With one out in the ninth, the Cubs'
Jimmy Qualls swung at a first-pitch sinker and rapped a clean single to left to
ruin Seaver's bid. ''When I got to first base, I was never booed so bad in my
life,'' Qualls told The Palm Beach Post in 2008. ''We got back to Chicago and I
got all this hate mail. You could tell by the handwriting it was just kids,
little Mets fans: 'You bum, don't show up in New York.' I don't get any letters
like that anymore.'' Qualls, a rookie, finished with 31 career hits and a .223
average. Seaver would throw one no-hitter, for Cincinnati, in 1978.

COMMON ALUMNI More than 100 players, from David Aardsma to Don Zimmer, have
suited up for both teams. Dave Kingman led the N.L. in homers and strikeouts for
the Cubs in 1979, and did it again for the Mets three years later. Turk Wendell,
the superstitious reliever, wore No. 13 for the Cubs and No. 99 for the Mets.
Aaron Heilman, who allowed Yadier Molina's game-winning homer in Game 7 of the
N.L.C.S. in 2006, moved on to the Cubs three years later. Shawon Dunston, an
inspirational leader of the Mets' 1999 playoff team, spent 12 years with the
Cubs, who drafted him first over all (four picks before Dwight Gooden) in 1982.
The original Met Jim Hickman, the intense reliever Randy Myers, the excitable
catcher Todd Pratt and the methodical starter Steve Trachsel are among the many
others who wore the blue of both teams. Mets Manager Terry Collins did not play
for either organization, but the last year the Mets reached the World Series, in
2000, he worked as an advance scout for the Cubs.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/baseball/nlcs-preview-chicago-cubs-vs-n
ew-york-mets.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Cubs had a team workout Friday at Citi Field. Chicago was
7-0 against the Mets in the regular season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN SOLOMON FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)
Clockwise from above left, Yoenis Cespedes, David Wright -- after Cespedes hit a
homer -- Michael Conforto, Travis d'Arnaud and Kelly Johnson, who all led the
Mets' offense in the second half of the season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE
JACOBSEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Chicago's Jon Lester is set to face Matt Harvey in Game 1 of the National League
Championship Series on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DILIP VISHWANAT/GETTY IMAGES)
 The Mets' Tom Seaver had a perfect game for eight and a third innings against
the Cubs at Shea Stadium on July 9, 1969. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%);
MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SPORTS (76%);
SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); SPORTS BUSINESS (68%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%); NEW YORK METS (94%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: DANIEL J MURPHY (50%)

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%)

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Chinese Billionaire Accused in U.N. Graft Scheme Is Allowed to Post Bail

BYLINE: By COLIN MOYNIHAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 739 words


A Chinese billionaire accused of taking part in a complex scheme to bribe United
Nations officials will be allowed to post bail and enter home detention after a
ruling on Friday.

Magistrate Judge Kevin N. Fox of Federal District Court in Manhattan ordered
that the billionaire, Ng Lap Seng, may be released on a $50 million personal
recognizance bond secured by $20 million in cash and an apartment he owns on
East 47th Street, near the United Nations.

The judge added that Mr. Ng, a 68-year-old real estate magnate, must surrender
all passports, be subject to GPS monitoring and be guarded by private security,
which he will pay for.

The hearing that preceded the order was something of a referendum on how the
wealth of a defendant who presents a flight risk should affect detention
decisions.

In a letter sent the previous day to Judge Fox, a prosecutor, Daniel C.
Richenthal, had cited factors -- including assets of nearly $2 billon, the
bribery of foreign officials, a lack of ties to the United States and
international connections -- that made Mr. Ng someone who could flee New York.
He also argued that defendants who are not eligible for release from federal
detention ''should not be able to buy their way out by constructing a private
jail.''

The defense lawyer, Benjamin Brafman, countered that such a determination would
be tantamount to penalizing someone for being rich. He noted in his own letter
that defendants were often deemed to be flight risks precisely because of their
monetary resources. He added that under his proposal, Mr. Ng would be
sequestered inside a $3.8 million apartment, ''subject to home detention with
electronic monitoring and 24-hour physical surveillance by armed guards.''

Mr. Brafman made the case that the court had previously approved similar
arrangements for defendants like Bernard L. Madoff and Marc S. Dreier. But Mr.
Richenthal rejected those comparisons on Friday, noting that Mr. Ng is not a
United States citizen and has shown that he is quite willing to violate the laws
of the land.

''He stays in this country a couple of days a year to commit the offenses with
which he is charged and then returns to China,'' he told the judge.

At times, the exchanges became pointed. The two sides bickered over how opulent
Mr. Ng's apartment was and whether it was a proper setting for home detention.

Mr. Brafman told the judge that while commodious, Mr. Ng's 47th Street apartment
was hardly one that would be envied by fellow billionaires.

''Mr. Madoff's apartment makes our apartment look like a bungalow,'' he said.
''Do they want us to go out and buy a hovel?''

Mr. Brafman said the guards would work for a company, Guidepost Solutions, run
by Bart M. Schwartz, who was once chief of the criminal division in the Southern
District of New York under Rudolph W. Giuliani, then the United States attorney
in Manhattan.

The guards -- current or former agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
the Secret Service, Immigration and Customs Enforcement or the Department of
Homeland Security -- would watch Mr. Ng in eight-hour shifts, he said. Guards
would earn $100 an hour, he added, and supervisors would earn $125 an hour
''plus applicable sales tax.''

Mr. Richenthal listed his reservations connected to what he termed a ''fake
prison.'' If Mr. Ng escaped, would he face jailbreak charges? Would assaulting a
private guard carry the same penalty as assaulting a federal officer?

''Are these security guards consenting to use deadly force against Mr. Ng?'' he
asked. ''Would that even be permitted?''

In the end, Judge Fox was unswayed by the government's arguments, telling
lawyers: ''I believe that there are conditions that can be fashioned to permit
the defendant to be at liberty.''

Mr. Brafman said that his client would need at least until Monday to satisfy the
conditions of Judge Fox's order. Mr. Ng has been held without bail since his
arrest on Sept. 19 on a conspiracy charge; he was accused of lying to Customs
and Border Protection officials about the purpose of the cash he brought into
the country. That case was later dismissed.

Mr. Ng was subsequently charged with giving more than $500,000 in bribes to John
W. Ashe, the former president of the United Nations General Assembly and a
diplomat from Antigua, in return for his help in building a multimillion-dollar
conference center, sponsored by the United Nations, in the Chinese territory of
Macau.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/nyregion/chinese-billionaire-accused-in-un-gra
ft-scheme-is-given-home-detention.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ng Lap Seng at a meeting in Macau over the summer. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY U.N. OFFICE FOR SOUTH-SOUTH COOPERATION, VIA REUTERS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGISTRATES (90%); BAIL (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%);
JUDGES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BRIBERY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE
(90%); HOUSE ARREST (90%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (89%); ELECTRONIC MONITOR
SENTENCING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); PASSPORTS &
VISAS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); REFERENDUMS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (58%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); MACAO (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Browns' Manziel Avoids Charges After Dispute With Girlfriend

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.F.L. ROUNDUP; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 637 words


Cleveland Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel was involved in a dispute with his
girlfriend this week that the police said involved alcohol.

Manziel was pulled over by the police in Avon, Ohio, after a witness said a
person was trying to jump from his speeding vehicle. Manziel admitted having
consumed alcohol before the incident. According to the police, Manziel was not
charged, and his girlfriend, Colleen Crowley, said she did not want to press
charges.

Manziel, who was drafted by the Browns in the first round in 2014, spent 70 days
in a Pennsylvania rehabilitation clinic earlier this year for an unspecified
condition. It is not known if he was prohibited from drinking after leaving the
program.

Browns General Manager Ray Farmer released a statement Friday night.

''It is a matter that we take seriously and have expressed our concerns to
Johnny directly,'' Farmer said. ''Those conversations will remain private and we
will refrain from further comment at this time.''

A team spokesman said that Manziel's status for the Browns' home game Sunday
against Denver had not changed. Manziel could face discipline from the N.F.L.
under its personal-conduct policy.

Manziel, whose rough rookie season was followed by his checking himself into the
treatment center, has been Josh McCown's backup for the last three games. He
started for an injured McCown in Week 2 and led the Browns to a win over
Tennessee.

Shortly after the Browns issued their statement, Manziel posted an explanation
on his Twitter account.

''Colleen and I got into a dumb public argument on the way home Monday
afternoon,'' Manziel wrote. ''It probably looked more interesting than it was
and I know I would stop and check if I saw a couple arguing on the side of the
road. It was embarrassing but not serious and when we talked to the police and
they realized everything was alright and I was sober, we went home together and
everything is fine.''

SEAHAWKS' LYNCH TO RETURN After missing the last two games with a hamstring
strain, Marshawn Lynch is expected to return to the Seattle's starting lineup
for Sunday's game against the Carolina Panthers.

Linebacker Bobby Wagner's status will be a game-time decision.

Lynch did not start against the Chicago Bears in Week 3 because of a calf injury
and then left the game for good in the second quarter after straining his
hamstring. The two games Lynch missed were the first games in which he was
inactive since being traded to Seattle in 2010.

Lynch participated fully in practice on Thursday and Friday.

''He looked really back to full health,'' Coach Pete Carroll said. ''He made it
out, looked good, and we're counting on him playing.''

Wagner's status is more uncertain. He suffered a strained pectoral last week
against the Cincinnati Bengals.

''He's tough enough to play with it,'' Carroll said. ''It's just whether it's
the right thing to do to get him back to health.''

BILLS' MCCOY LIKELY TO PLAY  Buffalo running back LeSean McCoy expects to return
from a hamstring injury and play Sunday against the Cincinnati Bengals. The
status of quarterback Tyrod Taylor and receiver Sammy Watkins is listed as
questionable.

McCoy has missed each of the last two weeks after a setback at practice. He
originally hurt his left hamstring at training camp Aug. 18. He is listed as
probable.

''I look forward to playing,'' McCoy said. ''When my number's called, I'm going
to be out there looking to make plays.''

Asked about McCoy's status, Coach Rex Ryan said: ''I feel pretty good. I guess
sometimes the experts get it wrong.''

McCoy has yet to make a major impact after arriving in Buffalo in a blockbuster
trade with the Philadelphia Eagles for linebacker Kiko Alonso. In three games,
he has 146 yards on 43 carries.

If Taylor is unable to play, E. J. Manuel will start in his place.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/football/nfl-scores-roundup.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel, left, admitted to having
drunk alcohol when questioned by the police about an argument. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JASON MILLER/GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); EYEWITNESSES (89%); POLICE
FORCES (78%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (70%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES
(70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND BROWNS (94%); DENVER BRONCOS (55%)

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%)

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Report on Protests Against Nepal's New Constitution Details Grisly Violence

BYLINE: By MAX BEARAK; Deepak Adhikari contributed reporting from Biratnagar,
Nepal, and Bhadra Sharma from Kathmandu, Nepal.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1003 words


JOGBANI, India --  As Nepalese officials prepared the country's new Constitution
this fall, scenes of grisly violence were unfolding in the country's Terai
region, a new report from Human Rights Watch says.

Protesters in the region, which has close ties to India, were outraged by the
proposed Constitution -- which was eventually adopted on Sept. 20 -- saying that
it favored the traditional ruling class in the northern and Himalayan regions.

In Tikapur, a city in Nepal's far west, protesters armed with spears and with
bamboo sticks spiked with nails beat eight lightly armed police officers to
death, including one who shared an ethnicity with his attackers and begged them
to take mercy, the report says. Another officer's 18-month-old son was shot in
the head after the initial clash, according to the report, which was released
Friday.

In the southern town of Birgunj, the police dragged a 14-year-old protester out
of the bushes, threw him to the ground and, while one officer stood on his legs,
shot him in the face at point-blank range, eyewitnesses said, according to the
report. Doctors who examined the boy's body said his injuries were consistent
with the account.

The region's clashes resulted in nine police deaths and 16 deaths among
civilians, including six apparent bystanders, the report says.

While not ignoring violence by the protesters, the report accuses the police of
carrying out extrajudicial killings and using disproportionate force.

The protests, led primarily by two groups, the Madhesis and Tharus, have left
much of the country's south under curfew for months. Delhi has complained that
the new Constitution is unfair to the Madhesis, with whom India has close
geographic and historical ties. Two months ago, India shut its major border
crossings with Nepal, saying the protests had made them too hazardous. That, in
turn, has led to severe fuel shortages in Nepal.

Nepal has accused India of imposing a de facto economic blockade as retribution
for the new Constitution, which passed hastily over India's objections. Nepal,
which is landlocked, relies on India for all of its fuel and most of its other
imports. The impasse threatens to replace Nepal's amicable if not dependent
relationship with its giant neighbor with something pricklier.

With a major festival for Nepal's Hindus approaching, a logjam of trucks waiting
to enter Nepal from India for weeks has eased at some crossings in recent days.
Customs officials at the Jogbani border crossing said more than 500 trucks
crossed into Nepal this week, though thousands of trucks were still waiting in
lines that were miles long. According to protest leaders, Madhesi agitation will
regain steam after the conclusion of the Dashain festival late this month.

''Ever since the Nepali state came into being, we have been treated as
second-class citizens,'' said Jaya Ram Yadav, a former lawmaker based in
Biratnagar and a member of the Madhesi People's Rights Forum (Democratic), one
of the groups participating in the protests. Power in Nepal has traditionally
been concentrated in the hands of the Pahadi, who populate the Himalayas and
their foothills. Madhesis and Tharus make up about 30 percent of the population,
and they are on average poorer and less educated than Pahadis.

The Human Rights Watch report describes a police crackdown tinged by ethnic
division. ''The police only call us Indians, Biharis,'' a Madhesi witness in the
city of Janakpur is quoted as saying. ''They say, 'They are Bihari, shoot
them.'''

A spokesman for Nepal's Home Ministry, Laxmi Prasad Dhakal, rejected the
report's findings that the police had used excessive and unnecessary force,
saying the report ''had been prepared totally in a biased manner.''

''Security agencies have opened fire as a last resort to save their lives,'' he
said. ''They opened fire when the protesters involved in anarchist activities,
and the situation went out of control.''

Before India's independence, groups from India's northern plains were some of
the first to clear the forests of southern Nepal and settle there, and the
border remains porous. Indians cross it without documents to shop and to visit
relatives, and they have watched the Madhesi protests with deep interest.

''Madhesis are Indians,'' said Ajay Kumar Gupta, the owner of a fertilizer
business in Forbesganj, a town seven miles from the border. ''To be Madhesi
means that you migrated from here to there -- maybe yesterday, maybe 20, 50 or
100 years ago.''

Mr. Gupta does not consider himself Madhesi, but he explained that term was more
a geographical indicator than an ethnic one. He said the term could be applied
to a spectrum of people, belonging to various castes and speaking several
languages, provided that they or their ancestors originated in the lowlands that
straddle the border.

''Ask anyone here and you will find that not one person doesn't have a family
relation with a Madhesi,'' said Mohammed Kalam, who works for a nongovernmental
organization in Forbesganj. ''It is impossible to exaggerate how many marriages
happen across the border.''

Caught between two governments trying to assert themselves, those on the
Nepalese side have been caught in precarious circumstances, particularly those
in the Terai.

Walking out of a state-owned salt distribution warehouse on Wednesday near
Biratnagar, a Madhesi named Birendra Yadav, 40, said he cared little about the
political ambitions of his community's leaders.

With the long-awaited arrival of trucks carrying salt from India, he was able to
get back to work after two months of supporting his family of eight on the
meager harvest from an acre of land where he grows vegetables and keeps a cow.

''We won't benefit if we keep on fighting. Our leaders must sit, talk, and solve
the problem,'' Mr. Yadav said softly, scratching his three-day gray stubble. ''I
want peace so that I can work and support my family. We all suffer from the
protests. It will be very difficult for us to survive if protests continue.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/asia/report-on-nepal-protests-details-gr
isly-violence.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nepalese police officers faced protesters dissatisfied with the
Constitution last month in Birgunj, a town bordering India that a report said
was shaken by violence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAM SARRAF/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Copies of the new charter at the Constituent Assembly Hall in Kathmandu on
Sept. 20, the day of its adoption. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NIRANJAN SHRESTHA/ASSOCIATED
PRESS) MAP: Waves of unrest have swept Nepal's Terai region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT
(78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); MOUNTAINS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); CURFEW
(73%); HEAD INJURIES (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); EXCISE &
CUSTOMS (67%); EYEWITNESSES (66%); ENERGY SHORTAGES (61%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (84%)

CITY: KATHMANDU, NEPAL (79%); DELHI, INDIA (58%)

COUNTRY: NEPAL (99%); INDIA (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Israeli Envoy Rejects Plan for a Holy Site

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA and RICK GLADSTONE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 459 words


UNITED NATIONS --  Israel's new ambassador to the United Nations plunged into
his first public diplomatic engagement here on Friday, ruling out any
international protection force for a disputed holy site in Jerusalem, as the
Palestinians demand.

In an appearance outside the Security Council chambers, the new ambassador,
Danny Danon, a former deputy defense minister in Israel known for hawkish views,
also condemned the Palestinian leadership for what he called its instigation of
violence against Jews.

Mr. Danon portrayed the series of stabbings and other attacks on Israelis in
recent weeks, coupled with an arson attack at the holy site known as Joseph's
Tomb in the West Bank city of Nablus on Friday, as the direct result of what he
described as hate-filled incitement of Palestinian children.

''I wish my first time speaking to you was on happier terms,'' Mr. Danon, 44,
told reporters as the Security Council convened a meeting on the latest
Palestinian-Israeli violence.

An underlying cause of the mayhem has been tensions surrounding the holy site in
Jerusalem known as the Temple Mount to Jews and the Noble Sanctuary to Muslims.

Palestinians have said they fear Israelis are planning to take over the site,
which under a longstanding arrangement is administered by a religious council
under Jordanian custodianship. Israel has repeatedly called such fears false,
unfounded and inflammatory.

Mr. Danon dismissed a request by the Palestinian delegation for an international
protection force to provide security at the site.

''We don't think any intervention will help,'' Mr. Danon told reporters.
''Keeping the status quo is right thing to bring stability and to keep stability
in the region.''

France said it intends to advance a draft statement calling for ''restraint''
and ''maintaining the status quo.'' The Security Council has not discussed any
text. A statement is not legally binding and has little effect.

The Palestinian ambassador, Riyad H. Mansour, told the Council that the need for
international protection at the site had become ''more urgent than ever
before.''

The United Nations legal office has prepared a confidential memorandum listing
examples of how a protection force could be deployed. But to make it public and
bring it up for discussion would require consensus among all 15 Security Council
members. That has proved elusive.

Seven Israelis and more than 30 Palestinians have been killed in recent weeks,
the United Nations assistant secretary general, Tayé-Brook Zerihoun, told the
Council.

He said the loss of hope in prospects for a Palestinian state had contributed to
what he called the ''anger and frustration'' that fuels the violence. He
welcomed Israel's commitment to maintaining the status quo.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/middleeast/israels-new-un-envoy-no-inter
national-force-at-holy-site.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); EMBASSIES &
CONSULATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%);
ANTISEMITISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); ARSON (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%)

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%)

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (97%); JORDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Identity Chaos, Courtesy of Your Federal Government

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER.

Twitter: @ronlieber

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1449 words


The year 2015 may set a new standard for shoulder-shrugging after identity
thefts and data breaches that ought to provoke outrage.

Captains of industry and the Secret Service have long since admitted to our
elected representatives that they are outgunned, outmanned, outnumbered and
outplanned.

But instead of the guardians of our personal data making an all-out stand, we
find that the very entities that are supposed to protect us are themselves
vulnerable and sloppy. This month, we learned that Experian, one of a handful of
companies that guard the credit file motherlode on all of us, allowed hackers
access to the personal information of 15 million aspiring T-Mobile customers.
Experian was sorry, sincerely. Ho-hum.

The Internal Revenue Service, allowed criminals to gain access to the tax
returns of at least 300,000 people, part of a yearslong pattern where it cannot
seem to stop hackers from filing false returns and claiming tax refunds in the
names of other people. Billions of dollars in taxpayer money have flown out the
door, despite the fact that the I.R.S. has had thousands of people working on
the problem. It can take six months to straighten out the problem once you've
detected it, if you ever do. We have come to expect this sort of thing.

But recently, I encountered the most bizarre case of identity madness that I
have ever heard of, involving a 66-year-old psychologist named Victoria
Schindler. It began with months of accusations and stonewalling from or on
behalf of federal agencies. That led her to stop seeing new Medicare patients at
her practice in Cary, N.C. She even considered retiring altogether.

The story begins with our absurd system of student loans, in which we tell
teenagers to take them out if they want an education and then unleash rabid debt
collectors when large numbers of them fail to repay the debt.

In late April, Ms. Schindler got a note in the mail from an entity she'd never
heard of, called the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. It informed her that the
Federal Department of Education had taken $689.28 from money that she was
supposed to receive for caring for patients who have Medicare coverage.

The letter told her that she'd previously received notice of this debt, which
wasn't true. Nor did she owe a cent to the Department of Education, since she'd
repaid her student loans a quarter-century ago.

So Ms. Schindler assumed the letter was a fraud. She was wrong. Someone,
somewhere in the layers of federal bureaucracy had confused her for somebody
else, who did indeed owe about $15,000.

Debt collectors working for the Department of Education were eventually able to
confirm that her own debts had a zero balance. But then, over the phone, she
said, they accused her of taking out debt for a child. When she explained that
she had no children, they accused her of borrowing for somebody else's child.
''I swear, that's what they said to me,'' she recalled in one of a series of
conversations we had over the months that she, and eventually I, tried to get to
the bottom of all of this.

She reluctantly agreed to send all sorts of identifying information (much more
than anyone needs to submit to apply for a student loan in the first place, by
the way) to the department. ''Somebody could have had quite a party with that,
oh boy,'' she said. The department promptly lost it, though she had confirmed
via registered mail that it had arrived safely.

Eventually, one of the debt collectors took pity on her and informed her of the
existence of an ombudsman's office at the Department of Education. ''She told me
that she wasn't supposed to tell me about that,'' Ms. Schindler said.

The next move soon became clear: It was the Department of Treasury that had the
sole power to stop taking Ms. Schindler's Medicare money. But it would not do so
without a letter from the Department of Education confirming that this was all a
big misunderstanding. And Ms. Schindler was unable to get the Department of
Education to hand over that note.

At that point, I started making some calls and Ms. Schindler soon heard from
apologetic Treasury employees who explained what happened. She did not believe
it at first, and neither did I, but this whole incident seems to have happened
because she is a woman.

The Department of Education sent the original student loan debtor's Social
Security number to the Treasury Department to begin the garnishment process.
Garnishment can happen when, at the behest of another entity of the federal
government, the Treasury Department takes, say, your income tax refunds or
Social Security checks. But when Treasury ran the debtor's Social Security
number through its systems, what came back was the federal Employer
Identification Number for Ms. Schindler's psychology practice. Those two numbers
were identical, which the federal government freely allows and is a story for
another day.

Then came the additional twist: The student loan debtor was also named Victoria,
though Ms. Schindler never communicated with her. At that point, someone at the
Treasury Department simply assumed that the two Victorias were the same person.
''That's what we do with women,'' Ms. Schindler said that Treasury employees,
who had clearly faced this situation before, told her. ''They don't do it to
men, because men don't change their names a lot.''

Short of having a sex change, there seem to be few ways for other people to
avoid getting caught up in casual indifference like this. I asked the Treasury
Department if it might consider double-checking to make sure that women with
different last names are not, in fact, different women. It turns out that this
research is always supposed to happen, but it did not in this case. On Friday,
officials promised to review procedures to make sure that this kind of thing
doesn't happen again. According to the Department of Education, it may happen
only a few times each year.

More than once, people at both the Department of Education and Treasury told Ms.
Schindler that the quickest way to put an end to her troubles was to get her
congressman or senator involved. She did not do this, but if you ever have
similar problems, my column about how to get such constituent services should be
helpful.

If you're looking for armor that can protect you from the fallout of breaches
like the one at Experian, a security freeze can help. A freeze, which you
initiate at the big three credit bureaus -- Experian, Equifax and TransUnion --
should keep hackers and purchasers of stolen data from opening new credit
accounts in your name.

Experian tells us to worry not about the vulnerability of its primary database,
the one that has all of the information about nearly every one of us. ''Our
credit database is on an entirely different network that is protected with a
robust firewall and is also physically separated from other servers,'' said
Susan Henson, a spokeswoman. As far as Experian knows, there has never been a
breach on that main consumer credit database. I hope it never happens and fully
expect that it will someday.

A security freeze won't directly protect you from basic I.R.S. tax refund fraud.
One thing that may help is filing your taxes quickly. That way, you're putting
in for your refund before any criminal does, since many of them submit false
returns early each tax season.

As for Ms. Schindler, who estimates that she has lost at least 40 hours of her
life to her quagmire, she stopped billing Medicare as soon as she figured out
what was happening. After all, if she did submit bills then the Treasury
Department would inevitably seize the money again.

One patient stopped seeing her, since she knew that Ms. Schindler wasn't getting
paid and did not think it was right to continue getting treatment. Ms. Schindler
strongly considered closing down her practice, literally ceasing her service to
the federal old-age health care program because some other arm of the federal
government was making it impossible for her to collect her modest fees.

But by last month, we thought we had worked everything out. The check for the
money that the Treasury Department had garnished was reportedly in the mail.

Then, there was this news: Thanks to an error at the Department of Education,
the Treasury Department had sent her money to the wrong address.

And wouldn't you know it? It ended up in the hands of the other Victoria, the
one who had defaulted on her own student loan and caused all of these dominoes
to fall over on Ms. Schindler in the first place.

On the second try -- but really something more like the 25th, after all of those
months -- Ms. Schindler finally got her check once the Department of Education
canceled the first one.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/your-money/identity-chaos-courtesy-of-your-fed
eral-government.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Victoria Schindler on her farm in New Hill, N.C. The government
erroneously garnished her income. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK PIRONIO FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (B4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (90%); DATA SECURITY
(90%); IDENTITY THEFT (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); EDUCATION
DEPARTMENTS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); MEDICARE (86%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE
FORCES (77%); CREDIT RATINGS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS
(75%); TAX AUTHORITIES (74%); STUDENT LOANS (68%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (68%)

COMPANY: T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (57%); EXPERIAN PLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

TICKER: EXPN (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE
COMMUNICATIONS (57%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (57%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

What Iran Fears a Reporter Can Do

BYLINE: By AZADEH MOAVENI.

Azadeh Moaveni is a lecturer in journalism at Kingston University and the
author, most recently, of ''Honeymoon in Tehran: Two Years of Love and Danger in
Iran.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 975 words


London -- FOR most of the years that I was based in Iran as a correspondent for
Time magazine, my working life approximated a clumsy script for a television spy
drama. I was regularly obliged to meet with intelligence agents who monitored my
writing and hectored me to disclose the identities of sources. These
interrogation sessions usually took place in empty apartments across Tehran,
places where no one could have heard me scream, and always with stern warnings
that nobody could know they were taking place.

I got used to seeing an unidentified number flashing on my cellphone, picking up
a call from a voice that would not identify itself. I got used to my assigned
agent's macabre jokes, to being followed and sometimes threatened. As he
revealed things about my life only those close to me would know, I grew to
distrust many of my friends, and felt tainted by his role in my life. But for
me, working in Iran involved such an association.

As a child of Iranian exiles living in California, I grew up hearing that the
Islamic Republic was merciless. So when I first traveled back to Iran -- where I
held dual citizenship -- to work in 1999, I expected some level of scrutiny. At
first, watching the Western reporters around me operating relatively freely, I
imagined the challenges would be tolerable.

Only at the very end of my time there did I realize I had been in the hands of
the ''good guys.'' Since I left in 2007, the Islamic Republic's intelligence
apparatus has grown steadily, in tandem with the political establishment's own
increasing fragmentation. Factions within the judiciary and the Revolutionary
Guards who often work at cross-purposes with the government have developed their
own intelligence bodies that operate with impunity, a deep state that is
determined to sabotage détente with the United States and to undermine the
pragmatic forces that signed July's nuclear deal to end Iran's isolation.

Journalists have always been in their cross hairs, especially Iranian-American
journalists, who are viewed as spies and, in recent years, as useful pawns
projecting the image that Iran is still very much in the business of hostage
taking.

Jason Rezaian, the Washington Post reporter who has been held in jail for nearly
15 months, is the latest victim of this continuing and complex pattern. He was
recently convicted of espionage in a secret trial and only heard of this
development, according to his brother, watching the evening news in prison.

Jason is also from Northern California, and the last time I saw him in San
Francisco, he was planning his move to Tehran with great excitement. Despite his
months of interrogation, I can imagine him sitting in his cell, wondering
exactly what he did wrong, apart from trying to explain Iran to the world. For
the deep state, the journalism itself scarcely matters. The scrupulous
objectivity and transparency that marked Jason's work from Tehran have never
been enough to persuade Iran's intelligence forces that Iranian-Americans are
not a security threat.

Their fears are not really about security. During my time in Iran, my agents
came to know me with bruising intimacy. They were the ones who approved the
renewal of my press card, and of course they monitored my phone calls and
emails. Often they complained that we Americans were too prone to conflating
elite Iranians with the rest of the country. I told them once, exasperated:
''Most Americans view Iranians as a nation of hostage-taking anti-Semites living
under Shariah law. Knowing that some like to go skiing makes us seem human.'' I
remember that day, because my agent put down his pen and seemed to acknowledge
the point.

But the part of the deep state that has imprisoned Jason does not bother itself
with such subtleties. This is not the old-school intelligence apparatus that was
trying to familiarize itself with how Iranian-Americans journalists functioned.
Those who are detaining Jason have an ideological vision of Iran's future that
requires continued isolation.

They worry, correctly, that President Hassan Rouhani and his allies are working
to open Iran up to the world. And that this opening will gradually erode support
internally, among the government itself, for Iran's aggressive posture in the
region and its severe restrictions at home. They see how media coverage of Iran
has shifted in recent months, how once routine images of black-chador-clad women
and Shiite militias have given way to fashion spreads and profiles of tech
start-ups. For them, this is a nightmare in the making, and they know that
imprisoning Iranian-Americans is a quick way to stop it.

The pragmatists around Mr. Rouhani privately appreciate the work of
Iranian-American journalists. They recognize that we are the ones best
positioned to report on our homeland, because we have built-in sympathies,
greater historical context and the language skills to document, with more
granular nuance, how Iran is changing. For much of the 2000s, when Iran largely
refused to allow any American correspondents to be based in the country, America
primarily read about Iran through the work of a handful of such dual-national
reporters, myself included.

We bore witness to the story of Iran changing around us, but the cost for many
of us, in the end, was high. This newspaper's Tehran reporter, Nazila Fathi, had
to leave Iran in the aftermath of the 2009 election unrest, told that snipers
had been given her photograph and orders to shoot. Others have endured smear
campaigns in the hard-line press, and like Jason, imprisonment.

Sometimes I find myself missing the old days. I would happily sit through those
interrogations again, because I see them now for what they were -- a chance for
a deeply suspicious state to understand how journalism really works, and to see
up close why it does not have to be a threat.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/opinion/what-iran-fears-from-reporters-like-ja
son-rezaian.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); WRITERS
(89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); CORRECTIONS (86%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%);
MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); HOSTAGE TAKING (69%); PRISONS (68%);
RELIGION (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (64%); CITIZENSHIP
(54%)

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Art Deco Landmark Will Be Reborn as a Low-Cost Gym

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 572 words


Since the Metro Theater showed its last movie in 2005, numerous deals have been
announced for the Art Deco gem on the Upper West Side. It was supposed to become
an Urban Outfitters clothing store, the home of a nonprofit arts education
group, an outpost of the revival-style Alamo Drafthouse Cinema chain. But
through it all, the Metro has stood vacant, its landmark marquee announcing
nothing more than the phone numbers of various real estate brokers hoping to
pull in a tenant.

Now, the broken-down, 82-year-old theater is about to be reborn, but not as a
cultural institution as many in the neighborhood had wished. It will become the
location of a Planet Fitness, a $10-a-month gym.

The deal is the culmination of a long, often contentious journey for the Metro,
located at 2626 Broadway, between 99th and 100th Streets. During its life, it
had been an art house cinema, a home to two national movie chains and a
pornography theater. While the building's facade cannot be altered, its interior
was gutted years ago.

The theater's owner, Albert Bialik, was for years locked in a protracted legal
battle with a leaseholder. He won that battle in 2011, and since then has
flirted with countless tenants, with several deals coming tantalizingly close.

Many in the neighborhood had hoped the eventual tenant would be akin to Symphony
Space, the cultural center located just to the south on Broadway and 95th
Street. When Councilman Mark D. Levine was elected to represent the neighborhood
in 2013, he vowed to make such a deal. ''Sadly, we weren't able to find a
workable deal for a cultural institution and I'm bitterly disappointed about
it,'' Mr. Levine said in a phone interview. ''But having said that, I think any
tenant is better than abandonment. And while it is a chain, at least it isn't a
Duane Reade.''

The conversations with Planet Fitness have been going on for more than a year,
and a deal was signed last Friday giving Planet Fitness a 15-year lease, with a
five-year option to extend.

Planet Fitness is the best use for the space, Mr. Bialik said. ''I consider
myself a steward of this building, and I'm happy that we found someone that will
take proper care of it,'' he said.

With 10,270 square feet on the street level and second floor, as well as 5,000
square feet below ground, the building is too small for a modern theater and
would not be able to compete with today's multiplexes, he said. Its lack of
windows and its large marquee, which casts shadows on the entryway, makes it a
poor fit for retail space, he added.

Planet Fitness said it would take care to return the building to its former
glory, creating a gym that would respect the Metro's historical details. The
facade's most striking feature is an Art Deco medallion above the marquee
depicting two entwined figures holding the masks of comedy and tragedy. ''We
have worked in landmark buildings before and we really love this space,'' said
Gabrielle Lawlor, the general counsel for PFNY, LLC, the franchisee that owns
Planet Fitness gyms in New York City.

Through all the twists and turns of the Metro's story, the denouement might have
been predicted almost from the beginning. In a 2008 New York Times article about
the theater, Ross Melnick, a founder of the Cinema Treasures website and an
author of a 2004 book, ''Cinema Treasures,'' said that chain drugstores and gyms
were among the most common new occupants for decommissioned theaters.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/nyregion/landmark-metro-theater-in-manhattan-t
o-be-reborn-as-a-planet-fitness.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VACANT FOR A DECADE: The marquee of the Metro Theater on the
Upper West Side is a landmark, but its interior, top right, was gutted years
ago. Bottom right, a ceiling detail remains. Councilman Mark D. Levine, who
represents the neighborhood, is ''bitterly disappointed'' that a cultural
institution won't be moving in. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE THEATERS (90%); FILM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE
(78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%);
LEASE AGREEMENTS (66%); INTERVIEWS (62%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (56%)

COMPANY: DECO CO LTD (91%); URBAN OUTFITTERS INC (58%)

TICKER: URBN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (91%); SIC2389 APPAREL &
ACCESSORIES, NEC (91%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Third Week of Gains, With a Focus on Earnings

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 789 words


U.S. stocks closed modestly higher Friday, giving the market its third straight
week of gains.

Consumer staples and health care stocks were among the biggest risers as
investors assessed the latest company earnings and economic news.

After several weeks of speculation about the implications of a slowdown in China
and the timing of an interest rate increase by the Federal Reserve, traders are
squarely tuned into company earnings.

''That's what the market is focused on,'' said Quincy Krosby, a market
strategist at Prudential Financial. ''Are we seeing a pickup in demand overseas
and in the United States, and if so, which sectors? That's what this is about.''

General Electric rose 3 percent, the most in the Dow Jones industrial average,
after the industrial conglomerate reported earnings that beat analysts'
forecasts.

The Dow rose 74.22 points, or 0.4 percent, to 17,215.97. The Standard & Poor's
500-stock index gained 9.25 points, or 0.5 percent, to 2,033.11. The Nasdaq
added 16.59 points, or 0.3 percent, to 4,886.69.

The tech-heavy Nasdaq is up 3.2 percent this year. The Dow is down 3.4 percent,
while the S.&P. 500 is off 1.3 percent.

The three major stock indexes began the day slightly higher, then wavered after
midday. The indexes slipped into the red at times before drifting back into
positive territory.

Investors appeared to brush off some discouraging economic data, including a
Federal Reserve report indicating that U.S. manufacturing production fell for
the second straight month in September. A separate Labor Department report
showed that employers advertised fewer job openings in August and kept hiring
flat. The job market has weakened the past two months, reflecting slower global
economic growth.

All told, nine of the 10 sectors in the S.&P. 500 rose. Health care and consumer
staples stocks each gained about 1 percent. The industrials sector declined 0.2
percent.

General Electric reported a decline in third-quarter profit, but strong
performances from its core units helped the company top Wall Street
expectations. G.E. rose 95 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $28.98.

Mattel climbed 6 percent after analysts at Oppenheimer published a research note
highlighting the toymaker's core brands as a bright spot. The report came a day
after Mattel reported disappointing third-quarter results. Mattel gained $1.36
to $23.89.

Traders hammered Quanta Services after the contracting services company lowered
its third-quarter profit and revenue outlook, citing project delays and a tough
market. The stock plunged 28.5 percent, losing $7.47 to $18.74.

Third-quarter earnings are forecast to contract overall as falling energy prices
and weak global demand start to eat into profits.

Among companies in the S&P 500 that have already reported third-quarter results,
earnings declined 5.1 percent from a year ago, the first drop in earnings growth
since the July-September period in 2009, according to S&P Capital IQ.

''When all is said and done we'll probably be looking at earnings that are
flattish for the quarter,'' said David Lefkowitz, an executive director and
equity strategist at UBS. ''But excluding the energy sector, we're looking for 6
percent growth, which is consistent with what we saw earlier this year.''

The earnings season hits a peak next week with scores of major companies
scheduled to report results including Morgan Stanley, Boeing, General Motors,
McDonald's and Microsoft.

In Europe, the FTSE 100 index of leading British shares was up 0.6 percent,
while Germany's DAX rose 0.4 percent. France's CAC 40 gained 0.6 percent.

In Asia, South Korea's Kospi inched down 0.1 percent, while Hong Kong's Hang
Seng rose 0.8 percent. The Shanghai Composite in mainland China was up 1.6
percent. Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 added 1.1 percent, aided by expectations
that the country's central bank will come up with more stimulus measures this
month or next.

In energy futures trading, Benchmark U.S. crude added 88 cents to close at
$47.26 in New York. Brent crude, used to price international oils, rose 73 cents
to close at $50.46 a barrel in London.

Wholesale gasoline rose 2.1 cents to close at $1.328 a gallon, while heating oil
rose 1 cent to close at $1.497 a gallon. Natural gas fell 2.3 cents to close at
$2.43 per 1,000 cubic feet.

U.S. government bond prices didn't budge. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
held at 2.02 percent. The euro was little changed at $1.1349 while the dollar
edged up to 119.49 yen.

In metals trading, gold fell $4.40 to $1,183.10 an ounce, silver declined five
cents to $16.11 an ounce and copper lost two cents to settle at $2.40 a pound.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/daily-stock-market-activity.html

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial
average at 1-minute intervals on Friday. (Source: Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK
EXCHANGES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE &
REPORTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BUSINESS
FORECASTS (89%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); OUTPUT &
DEMAND (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); DELAYS &
POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%);
ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS
(77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
(72%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (63%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS
(63%); INTEREST RATES (57%)

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); QUANTA
SERVICES INC (51%)

TICKER: PRU (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE
(NYSE) (56%); PWR (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY &
CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS
(57%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, &
CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT
ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR &
HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE
MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS238210 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS & OTHER WIRING
INSTALLATION CONTRACTORS (51%); NAICS237130 POWER & COMMUNICATION LINE & RELATED
STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (51%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (51%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Henry Krystal, 90, Holocaust Trauma Expert and Survivor

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 866 words


Dr. Henry Krystal, who was forced into slave labor by the Nazis as a teenager
and later focused his noted psychiatric career on the emotional scars carried by
former concentration camp inmates, died on Oct. 8 at his home in Bloomfield,
Mich. He was 90.

The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his sons said.

In his decades of research, Dr. Krystal, as a professor of psychiatry at the
Michigan State University College of Osteopathic Medicine, interviewed more than
2,000 survivors of the Holocaust, drew on his own wartime reflections and
studied the responses of victims of the atomic bomb attack on Hiroshima, Japan.

He concluded that because traumatized individuals complained primarily of
physical manifestations, like headaches, they overlooked potential treatment for
depression and other emotional symptoms, leaving themselves vulnerable to
self-medication, like addiction and other impulsive behaviors.

His work led to novel healing responses to post-traumatic stress disorder, like
biofeedback and cognitive psychotherapy. The disorder was recognized in veterans
after the war in Vietnam.

''During and after World War II, innumerable psychoanalysts had close encounters
with the consequences of Nazi concentration camps,'' Dr. Bessel A. van der Kolk,
a leading authority on post-traumatic stress disorder, wrote in 1994, ''but only
a handful called attention to the ways in which devastating realities could
deform the psyche.''

In the 1970s, Dr. Krystal was among those lonely voices.

Growing up in Poland near the German border, he was 13 when his grandfather was
beaten to death in his country store during a pogrom against Jews, and 14 when
the Nazis invaded in 1939. He was the only member of his immediate family to
survive the war. His mother died in a death camp. His father and older brother
fled east from the advancing Germans and were never seen again.

In 1992, when Dr. William B. Helmreich of the City University of New York found
that some Holocaust survivors tended to be more successful than other American
Jews of comparable age, Dr. Krystal concurred, but with an important caveat.

''If I had been part of Dr. Helmreich's study, he'd probably see me as very well
adjusted,'' Dr. Krystal said. ''But I don't see myself that way; I have lots of
post-traumatic stress-type problems. Many survivors look better from a
sociological point of view than from a psychiatric one.''

One study, conducted with Dr. William G. Niederland of the State University of
New York Health Science Center at Brooklyn and published in 1965, found that
former concentration camp inmates suffered from ''survivor guilt,'' which
manifested itself as ''a form of pathological mourning'' and an inability to
experience joy.

''Many of our patients were not only unable to afford themselves some of the
most innocent types of pleasure (for example, going to a movie, concert or
social gathering with others), but even considered it outright immoral that they
should enjoy themselves when most of their families had been killed,'' the
authors wrote.

Dr. Krystal experienced similar feelings when he was liberated from a
concentration camp as World War II ended.

''I couldn't muster the feeling of joy, of any celebration or joy or who to
celebrate with, you know,'' he said in a 1996 interview with the Holocaust
Survivor Oral History Archive. ''Maybe a day or two before I was liberated, a
thought occurred to me, and that is that if I should die, nobody in the world
would know and nobody would miss me.''

He attributed the survival of some inmates to an almost childlike belief in
their own indomitability.

''I feel that 'healthy' infantile omnipotence is the most important asset for
dealing with life's stresses and potential trauma,'' Dr. Krystal wrote in a
chapter he contributed to ''Living With Terror, Working With Trauma: A
Clinician's Handbook,'' edited by Danielle Knafo and published in 2004. ''It is
the emotional mainspring of extraordinary reserves. It provides a profound,
unshakable conviction of one's invulnerability.''

Henyek Krysztal was born in Sosnowiec, Poland, on April 22, 1925. His father,
Herschel, was an accountant. His mother was the former Dora Grossman. From 1942
to 1945, he was a slave laborer, working at a factory operated by the Siemens
company, and an inmate at the Auschwitz, Buchenwald and Sachsenhausen
concentration camps.

When the war was over, he was in the British occupied zone. He attended Goethe
University, then immigrated to Detroit, where he lived with an aunt. He
graduated from Wayne State University in 1950 and then from its School of
Medicine.

Survivors include his wife, the former Esther Reichstein; his sons, John, who is
the chairman of the psychiatry department at Yale, and Andrew, who is a
psychiatry professor at Duke; and three grandchildren.

After the German government agreed to grant pensions to Holocaust survivors, Dr.
Krystal started receiving referrals from the German Consulate to evaluate their
eligibility.

Among other publications, he wrote ''Integration and Self-Healing,'' ''Psychic
Traumatization'' and ''Drug Addiction: Aspects of Ego Function,'' and edited
''Massive Psychic Trauma.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/15/science/henry-krystal-holocaust-trauma-expert-
dies-at-90.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry Krystal in the late '80s.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%);
HOLOCAUST (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); FORCED LABOR (90%); MENTAL
ILLNESS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES
(89%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%);
DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (77%); MEDICAL TREATMENTS &
PROCEDURES (76%); BIOFEEDBACK (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (75%);
DEPRESSION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); OSTEOPATHY (71%); BOMBS
& EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); BOMBINGS (70%); VIETNAM WAR (67%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CHUGOKU, JAPAN (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); POLAND (79%); VIET NAM (55%); CENTRAL
EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

Rugby World Cup Quarterfinals: Here's the Breakdown

BYLINE: By EMMA STONEY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON RUGBY; Pg.

LENGTH: 1105 words


WELLINGTON, New Zealand -- So the battle lines have been drawn along the
north-south divide, but what will the Rugby World Cup quarterfinals really tell
us about the state of play in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres?

Well, first, it's not quite a pure north-south split, given that three of the
four coaches of the Northern Hemisphere teams -- Wales, Scotland and Ireland --
are coached by New Zealanders. Only one -- Philippe Saint-André, of France -- is
actually from the north.

Second, with that Kiwi influence, there has been some blurring of lines when it
comes to definite styles, although the power game is still very much the forte
of the European teams.

Here's a look at each quarterfinal and where the teams differ.

South Africa vs. Wales There's not actually much that separates these two teams
when it comes to their styles. Both have a decent forward pack, quality loose
forwards and good goal-kickers in Dan Biggar and Handré Pollard. They use the
blitz defense -- where they come off the line quickly and move in toward the
attacking player and the direction of the ball -- and their offense is based
more on power than finesse.

But the Springboks probably have slightly more variety on attack as the flyhalf
Pollard is more willing to attack the line than Biggar, which makes him just a
little bit more unpredictable.

Midfielders Damian de Allende and Jesse Kriel are also more dynamic than their
Welsh counterparts, able to put others into space and good at supporting
fullback Willie le Roux when he counterattacks.

Wales's attack -- named ''Warrenball'' after Coach Warren Gatland -- is based on
carrying the ball into contact again and again until the opposition defenders
are sucked in and the ball is flung wide to expose the gaps in defense. It is,
however, very one-dimensional, and smart defending, as Australia showed in its
win last weekend, even when it was reduced to 13 players, can contain key
runners like Jamie Roberts and George North. The biggest hurdle for Wales,
however, is mental. It has a very poor record against Southern Hemisphere teams.
It has lost 11 straight to Australia, not beaten New Zealand since 1953 and has
won just once in its last 10 matches against South Africa.

Prediction: South Africa.

New Zealand vs. France  Ah, the ghosts of World Cups past. This is a repeat of
the 2007 quarterfinal, when France condemned New Zealand to its earliest-ever
World Cup exit. It is fair to say since then New Zealand has gone on to bigger
and better things, while the French have been -- well, the French.

New Zealand, the defending champion, has not hit top gear yet, but it has done
enough to go through the pool phase unbeaten. At their best the All Blacks play
the game at a fast pace, with forwards who pass and offload like backs. They are
ruthless at the breakdown and are strong at set pieces -- lineouts and scrums --
and excellent finishers out wide. While they have been disjointed and lacking
their usual pinpoint execution, they have still scored the most tries in the
tournament so far.

France may well have been the All Blacks' bogey team in the 1999 semifinal and
again in 2007, but it has lost two finals (1987 and 2011) to New Zealand.

This current French team, once again beset by internal strife, is a shadow of
the one that produced the stirring comeback in 1999, where flair and risk-taking
were its hallmarks. Under Saint-André, France has none of the panache the coach
himself displayed in his playing days. Instead its game is based on its
formidable pack -- led superbly by Thierry Dusautoir and Louis Picamoles --
doing the damage and backs carrying hard into contact. It's a shame when you
consider the match-winning potential the exciting Wesley Fofana has, if only he
got the ball more often and space to work in.

Prediction: New Zealand.

Ireland vs. Argentina  This is likely to be the closest of the quarterfinals
and, again, there is not much difference in the playing styles of the two teams.
Dominance in the forwards is a key feature and they like to use the scrum and
lineout as the platform for attack. Ireland has perhaps the more pragmatic, less
risky approach, while Argentina is now much more confident in its abilities to
launch counterattacks from inside its own half than it used to be.

Nicolás Sánchez and Juan Martín Hernández give the Pumas dual playmakers in the
back line and the wingers Juan Imhoff, Lucas González Amorosino and Horacio
Agulla have profited.

Ireland, which has already lost its hugely influential captain and lock Paul
O'Connell and back-row forward Peter O'Mahony to injury, and flanker Sean
O'Brien to suspension, is also sweating on the fitness of Jonathan Sexton, who
will be a huge loss if he is ruled out with a groin injury. Flyhalf Sexton is
the conductor. He is astute at knowing when to kick for territory, when to carry
the ball to the line himself and when and how to bring his other backs into
play.

Argentina has a good history against the Irish at the World Cup with victories
in 2007 and 1999 and a narrow 16-15 defeat in 2003.

Prediction: Argentina.

Australia vs. Scotland  Australia is in the best form of any World Cup team so
far. The Wallabies have won by scoring tries. They have won on the back of
dogged defense and shown that their scrum is no longer their Achilles' heel.
Star fullback Israel Folau has been underwhelming in pool play, but flyhalf
Bernard Foley has not. He gave a master-class performance against England,
showing he can set up and score tries as well as kick his goals. Australia has
not shied away from the bruising confrontation at the breakdown, and in David
Pocock it has one of the best turnover exponents in the game.

But Australia has also shown skill in moving the ball quickly and putting
players in space, and if it can lay the platform upfront against the Scots, it
will probably have too much speed and strength for them to cope with.

Scotland's most recent success against Australia came on a cold, wet and windy
night in Newcastle, New South Wales, in 2012. In an attritional match Greig
Laidlaw kicked a late penalty for the 9-6 victory. It is hard to see the Scots
getting another win this weekend, although they showed enough against Samoa to
suggest they will at least push Australia.

Scotland's strength has been to stick to what it knows. It has played for
territory and used the scrum and lineout to launch attacks. Laidlaw has kicked
his goals. But with two key players -- lock Jonny Gray and hooker Ross Ford --
suspended for the match (pending an appeal) -- it's hard to see another upset in
the cards.

Prediction: Australia.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/rugby/rugby-world-cup-quarterfinals-bre
akdown.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUGBY (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION
(90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (58%)

CITY: WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND (91%)

COUNTRY: NEW ZEALAND (97%); WALES (95%); SCOTLAND (94%); AUSTRALIA (91%);
AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

A Sold Out Phillips Auction at Frieze

BYLINE: By SCOTT REYBURN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 264 words


LONDON:   There were few signs of demand cooling at the first of Frieze Week's
nine live auctions here of postwar and contemporary art.

On Wednesday night, Phillips held an auction of 36 contemporary works that
completely sold out, raising 31.5 million pounds with fees, about $48 million,
in line with estimates.

In fact, two thirds of the material was always going to sell, thanks to
financial guarantees.

But most of the lots attracted more than one bid, either on a telephone or from
the crowd of more than 300 crammed into the salesroom.

The top lot encapsulated why the rich want to buy blue-chip contemporary art. A
loopy 2006 abstract ''Untitled'' by Cy Twombly had been bought at auction by
Wednesday's seller for $9 million in November 2011.

At Phillips, it sold to a lone telephone bidder for a hammer price of £7
million, plus £922,500 in fees, adding up to the equivalent of about $12
million.

At that sort of price level, sellers aren't charged commission and share the
buyer's fee, so the investment has yielded a return of at least 20 percent in
less than four years.

Phillips's sale was bolstered by 18 works by fashionable names from the
collection of the Miami cosmetic surgeon Fredric Brandt, the so-called Baron of
Botox who committed suicide in April. .

Ensured to succeed courtesy of a third-party guarantor, the Brandt collection
raised £9.4 million with fees, led by the £2.3 million bid in the room by the
New York dealer Philippe Ségalot for a 1994 Christopher Wool monochrome abstract
on aluminum.

Phillips's auction here last year raised £14.8 million.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/arts/international/a-sold-out-phillips-auction
-at-frieze.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (76%); SUICIDE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

William Forsythe, Keeping the Brain Engaged

BYLINE: By ROSLYN SULCAS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1152 words


FRANKFURT -- Sixty pendulums swayed in silence. William Forsythe, the
choreographer, frowned slightly, his eyes closed, thinking. His expression would
have been familiar to the thousands of dancers he has worked with in his 40-year
career, but Mr. Forsythe was not using performers in this large, white room at
the Museum of Modern Art here. A sharp cracking sound was followed by a sudden
accumulation of rhythmic knocks, then more silence. Some pendulums, animated by
the pistons making the knocking sounds, swung faster as others stilled. ''That's
better,'' Mr. Forsythe said. ''You want to keep the brain engaged.''

It was just a few days before the opening of Mr. Forsythe's first major museum
show, ''The Fact of Matter,'' which opened Saturday and runs through Jan. 31. It
is not about dance, and -- apart from two films of Mr. Forsythe illustrating
ideas about line -- does not feature dance. The exhibition, which encompasses
all three floors of the museum's famously quirky triangular design by Hans
Hollein, shows the large-scale installation work that Mr. Forsythe has been
creating for nearly 20 years, which he calls ''choreographic objects,'' and a
number of the museum's holdings that he has organized along thematic lines.

Susanne Gaensheimer, the director of the museum (known as MMK, for Museum für
Moderne Kunst), said she became aware of Mr. Forsythe's importance soon after
moving here in 2009.

''Early on, I said to my colleagues that we should definitely do an exhibition
because he was creating work that was not just choreography or just visual art,
but somehow both,'' she said.

This is a major moment for Mr. Forsythe, 65, whose three-decade-long career in
Frankfurt has gone a long way to putting the city on the cultural map. After a
lifetime of running companies -- first the ground-breaking Frankfurt Ballet from
1984 to 2004, then the Forsythe Company from 2005 until this year -- he is now a
solo agent. He holds the position of choreographic associate at the Paris Opera
Ballet, a professorship at the University of Southern California, and with this
solo exhibition confirms a place in the world of visual arts.

''I think this is a very timely transition for Bill because of the overtures the
visual art world has made toward choreography recently,'' said Louise Neri, a
director at Gagosian in New York, who said the gallery was planning to exhibit
his installation work ''Black Flags'' in Paris next year. ''There has been a
relative storm of institutional interest in his work.'' (In the next year, Mr.
Forsythe will show pieces in Copenhagen; Dresden, Germany; Madrid; and at the
Sydney Biennale.) Ms. Neri showed a film by Mr. Forsythe, ''Solo,'' when she
co-curated the 1997 Whitney Biennale. Also that year, he made his first foray
into installation work at the Roundhouse in London with ''White Bouncy Castle,''
which had spectators bounding and falling in a giant rubber courtyard.

He described it at the time as ''a choreography that is incapable of being
false.'' It's a description that fits a subsequent substantial body of work that
generates movement in spectators -- by navigating between the swinging pendulums
(''Everywhere and Nowhere at the Same Time''), clambering through 200 gymnastic
rings without touching the floor (''The Fact of Matter''), moving extremely
slowly in order not to disturb a whirlpool of fog (''Additive Inverse'') or
testing just which kind of movements create the most surreal effects on an
enormous video screen (''City of Abstracts''); all of which are featured in the
show.

''With choreography, the audience sits still and ideas are moved in front of
them,'' Mr. Forsythe said over lunch in the museum's restaurant. ''In this case,
the audience circulates among the ideas. The public must move or the work
doesn't speak.''

He said that when he was first approached by Ms. Gaensheimer and Mario Kramer,
the museum's head of collections, he was delighted by their request to pair his
work with items from its extensive holdings.

''I am not particularly interested in simply putting dance works in a museum
context,'' he said. ''But I am very interested in the correspondences you can
find between artistic practices. In objects, films, sculptural pieces throughout
the collection, there is what you might call choreographic thinking.'' Citing
pieces in the show by Santiago Sierra, Ai Weiwei and Bruce Naumann, he said that
it was the viewer who must make sense of the piece through evaluating changes in
motion or having to move themselves.

Although he knew the museum's collection well, Mr. Forsythe said Mr. Kramer had
provided invaluable guidance in finding works that would ''create
correspondences'' with the ideas in his pieces.

''We discussed themes like line, movement, volume, compression, limitations,''
Mr. Kramer said in an interview in his office. ''It was so interesting for me
how he looked at works in the collections. I was totally surprised by some
choices, then I would understand. His theme is to bring people to the
realization or the edge of physical possibilities. His thinking is very much a
momento mori, the fragile existence of life and energy in the body.''

Notions of mortality and physical limitation are certainly present in the
exhibition, particularly in the first section, which includes Teresa Margolles's
''Aire'' (2003), a room containing humidifiers filled with water used to wash
corpses in a Mexico City morgue. (Her film of the activity is shown in an
upstairs gallery.) ''It's quotidian or mundane,'' Mr. Forsythe said, ''but
Margolles's genius is to make us aware that we live with those who have died and
carry them with us.''

But the exhibition is also playful, from the sculptural balls of interwoven
limbs created by two dancers in the film ''Stellenstellen'' (echoed in a nearby
glass case by Jens Risch's ball of knotted silk thread, compressed from 1,000
meters to palm-of-hand tininess), to ''City of Abstracts'' and an extremely
heavy door with the instruction: ''If you have difficulties opening the door,
please persist.''

The door leads into an empty room, in which the viewer is asked to keep a
distance of at least one meter from the walls and everyone else. The work,
''Aufwand,'' invokes the spirit of Marcel Duchamp, whose influence is subtly
apparent throughout the show. (And obviously present too: David Hammons's ''The
Holy Bible: Old Testament,'' a gilded Duchamp catalogue raisonné, is on view in
a glass case.)

''When Duchamp dropped one-meter long threads on the floor,'' Mr. Forsythe said,
''and they took up other shapes, he created a choreographic practice and
challenged all assumptions about artistic procedure.''

Please persist. It might be Mr. Forsythe's motto, but also the message he sends
to the museum-goer. ''The spectator is the most important element in the
exhibition,'' he said. ''As Duchamp suggests, you must move in order to know.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/arts/international/william-forsythe-keeping-th
e-brain-engaged.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); DANCERS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS &
PERFORMERS (90%); DANCE (90%); VISUAL ARTS (89%); BALLET (89%); VISUAL &
PERFORMING ARTS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); HUMANITIES &
SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES
(54%)

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (94%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); CALIFORNIA, USA
(52%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (66%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                        The International New York Times

Our Vanishing Flowers

BYLINE: By STEPHEN L. BUCHMANN.

Stephen L. Buchmann, an adjunct professor of entomology and evolutionary biology
at the University of Arizona, is the author, most recently, of ''The Reason for
Flowers: Their History, Culture, Biology, and How They Change Our Lives.''

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg.

LENGTH: 1059 words


TUCSON -- Ours is one of the most colorful relationships of history: We need
flowers for our very survival, and in turn flowers -- the plants that exist as
crop cultivars or horticultural cut flowers or potted beauties -- rely on us to
reproduce and spread. But all is not well in this storied partnership: We who
behold or nurture flowers are condemning their wild relatives to extinction at
an alarming rate, and the world is quickly becoming a lesser place without them.

Our prehistoric ancestors certainly made use of flowering plants. Imagine an
early human forager 200,000 years ago, a woman walking from her camp searching
for edible leaves, fleshy berries, tubers and hard seeds. She is a keen observer
of nature, noticing and remembering when food plants and animals were scarce or
abundant. Patches of flowering plants beckon as colorful and scented beacons in
otherwise drab monotones of brown earth and green vegetation. Because of her
past associations with flowers, she'll return to the patch in a few weeks when
the tasty berries have ripened. She knows what many moderns have forgotten --
that flowers are the harbingers of the fruits and seeds that sustain and keep us
healthy.

Flowers are relative newcomers: Only recently in the Earth's 4.5-billion-year
history have they adorned special plants. For most of the distant past, except
for the colors of male birds, butterflies and other insects, fish and lizards,
the world was an expanse of brown and red soils and rocks, and green forests,
savannas and meadows. Then something extraordinary happened. About 130 to 160
million years ago, the group of plants we know as angiosperms invented flowers
and never looked back. Opinions vary since so many flowering plants have yet to
be discovered or named, but the Earth may hold at least 350,000 uniquely
different species.

Early insects that had fed on sap, leaves and sugary exudates in the
''extrafloral'' nectaries of ferns, cycads and their allies, began to visit the
earliest flowers (such as Archaefructus) in search of protein-rich pollen and
sweet nectar. Unknowingly, in their search for food these early flower-visiting
insects became contaminated with and carried precious microscopic pollen grains.
Pollinating animals became regular and dependable floral visitors, exactly the
go-betweens that sessile plants required.

Turn your Rome Beauty or Red Delicious apple upside down and examine it closely.
Those five small brown appendages are remnants of the once green sepals, and
inside those are the shriveled remnants of the anthers and pistil, the
reproductive organs of the apple blossom. Your sweet apple began its life as a
delicate and ephemeral blossom on a fruit tree until visited by a pollinating
bee. Once fertilized, the flower's ovary grew thousands of times in size until
it became a tasty apple.

This is the secret of flowers. They entice animals with their colors, shapes and
scents, then reward them with pollen, nectar, essential oils, resins, shelter
and even warmth. Flowers exist as living billboards signaling to insects, birds
and bats, and sometimes us, for the sexual service of pollination they require.
Flowers develop into fruits containing the seeds that become the next generation
of plants -- and the basis of many human foods.

Although the wind-pollinated cereal crops -- including rice, wheat, maize and
barley -- keep the world's 7.2 billion people from starvation, the colorful
fruits and berries we relish keep us healthy and happy. Given a choice, who
would prefer a bland, starchy maintenance diet? We can't forget that the fruits
and seeds of wildflowers, shrubs and trees also feed many of the world's
herbivorous wildlife, from Chesapeake Bay northern cardinals to African
hornbills, along with fat bears, skunks, bats and even crocodiles. This is the
vital link between flowers and food for many animals -- including us.

Flowers and fruits are the basis for many medicines, while providing cotton,
flax fibers and beverages. Roses, jasmine and ylang-ylang contribute their
fragrant molecules as ingredients in the world's costliest perfumes. Cut flowers
are a multibillion-dollar industry. It's becoming ever more apparent that we
need flowers to maintain our health, our food supply, and for our happiness and
mental abilities. Flowers also make us smile; they lift our spirits.
Psychological studies indicate that floral scents may enhance long-term memory
formation.

But now we are losing many flowering plants to extinction before we even knew
they existed. An estimated 68 percent of the world's flowering plants are now
threatened or endangered. This staggering loss of diversity is due to
anthropogenic causes, including habitat loss, degradation and invasive species.

Conversion of land for housing our ever-expanding human population and for new
roads, mines and farms erases wildflowers' living space and threatens yet more
native plants. Invasive (weedy) plants populate new areas, competing for space,
light and nutrients with those already growing there. It is these trends that
are driving the massive loss of flowering species.

Clearly, we cannot save all the native flowering plants, but we must not lose
them all either. It would be impossible to individually rescue every species,
like Hawaii's Brighamia, or save them all in gardens, like Franklinia from
Georgia. The greatest biodiversity of flowering plants occurs in rain forests
like Peru's Tambopata National Reserve. Governments and individuals must value
and preserve existing parks and reserves, as well as expand and create new ones.
The preservation of vast tracts of land to conserve rare species is useless,
however, unless conservation laws are enforceable and local security forces are
employed to prevent overcollection. This effort cannot simply be conservation on
paper. There must be realistic funding for effective security, including park
guards, while allowing for reasonable levels of ecotourism and bioprospecting.

It is my sincere hope that the delegates attending the 2015 United Nations
Climate Change Conference in Paris later this year will notice the handsome
floral bouquets adorning the tables and stages -- and listen to the important
messages they are telling us.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/opinion/our-vanishing-flowers.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HORTICULTURE (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS
(89%); ANIMALS (88%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (76%)

STATE: EARTH (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cops, Blondes, Hustlers and, of Course, a Corpse

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA LA ROCCO

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 482 words


Perhaps the Wooster Group has ruined me.

I kept thinking that on Thursday night at the Howard Gilman Opera House of the
Brooklyn Academy of Music, where the Canadian Stage production ''Helen
Lawrence'' is having its American premiere at the Next Wave festival.

The acting is all live in this noirish work, which was conceived and directed by
Stan Douglas, and written by Chris Haddock. But the action plays out almost
exclusively on a fourth-wall scrim. Cameras capture the scenes on the
screen-enclosed stage, so that the performers appear as both hazy background
figures, operating in isolation, and as larger-than-life projections in a
detailed film world.

It's a conceit well suited to noir, with its layers of surveillance, duplicity
and doubling. Yet the stage-screen conversation remains largely static
throughout the roughly 90-minute show -- especially when you think of pioneering
multimedia powerhouses like the Woosters, and the generations of artists
influenced by their collaged, genre-conflating body of work.

Not that everyone need emulate the Wooster Group. (Actually, please stop
emulating the Wooster Group, so-called experimental theater artists of the
world!) But having set up this live-action film, Mr. Douglas and his
collaborators do nothing to exploit the dislocation inherent in such split
viewing. The result is a hybrid that professes to be pushing boundaries but is
instead ploddingly conventional.

Some of this is the fault of Mr. Haddock's script. Set in post-World War II
Vancouver, ''Helen Lawrence'' dives with gusto into a world of crooked cops,
scheming hustlers and blond bombshells. Lisa Ryder is consistently compelling as
the almost unhinged, hard-drinking Helen, who is tracking a lover north from Los
Angeles, to even a score or rekindle an affair, or perhaps both. Indeed, the
cast mostly holds up its end of the bargain, navigating with confidence the
cameras and the dialogue. (''Sorry about the husband.'' ''Don't be. I'm not.'')

Threaded through the fast-moving narrative are subplots involving postwar shell
shock and simmering racial inequity. But these layers end up being largely
disposable, as are most of the characters' struggles. This perfunctory treatment
feels especially cynical in the case of one African-American character's doomed
efforts at dignity within a corrupt system. It's similarly disheartening to see
that the trend of using period productions to traffic in tired gender
stereotypes (woman as saint or sinner) continues.

Many of these issues (traumatized veterans without a safety net, bankrupt
officials and police violence toward blacks, to name a few) are horrifyingly
prevalent today. Yet productions like ''Helen Lawrence'' keep them at a neat
distance, veiled, literally, in a veneer of vintage glamour.

­''Helen Lawrence'' runs through Saturday at the Brooklyn Academy of Music;
718-636-4100, bam.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/theater/review-helen-lawrence-has-cops-blonds-
hustlers-and-of-course-a-corpse.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Helen Lawrence: Crystal Balint, on screen and at left, and Allan
Louis in this multimedia production at the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%);
POLICE MISCONDUCT (87%); RACE & RACISM (84%); FESTIVALS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS
(77%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (76%); FILM (74%); WORLD WAR II (64%);
CORRUPTION (63%); THEATER (57%)

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (58%)

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (58%)

COUNTRY: CANADA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fear This Room, From Floor to Ceiling

BYLINE: By ALEXIS SOLOSKI

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 356 words


The physical-theater artist Martin Zimmerman does not chew the scenery. But the
scenery just might chew him.

In his fitfully involving solo show, ''Hallo,'' part of the  Next Wave festival
at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, rogue décor attempts to crush him, stab him,
squish him, guzzle him, tumble him and deprive him of several fingers.

Mr. Zimmerman, a Swiss choreographer and designer, is a leading light in nouveau
cirque, a movement whose ''Hans Was Heiri'' played at the academy in 2013. At
the opening of this show, Mr. Zimmerman hurtles onstage in a white shirt, black
tights and a pair of very squeaky shoes, those must-have clowning accessories.
But the shoes squeak only when Mr. Zimmerman wants them to -- he can silence
them at will -- a sly dismantling of traditional buffoonery.

Squeaking away, he explores the stage, an accumulation of half-painted scenic
flats. Suddenly, a wooden box swallows him. No sooner has he made his escape
than a couple of partitions abruptly fall to the floor. Their collapse reveals a
narrow room, which seems stable enough, until its walls and ceiling begin to
shift. In Mr. Zimmerman's world, even the ground is untrustworthy. Occasionally
a few of the floorboards rise up as a menacing laugh resounds -- the Telltale
Chortle.

But the laughter the show evokes is only intermittent. Pathos is even scarcer.
When ''Hallo'' focuses on the elegant contrast between Mr. Zimmerman's antic,
nimble figure and the more stolid architectural perils, it is darkly witty,
reminiscent of the men and the merciless goad in Samuel Beckett's ''Act Without
Words II.''

Too often, though, Mr. Zimmerman embarks on frantic and futile vignettes,
garbing himself in a captain's hat or a pair of denim shorts and spouting
aggressive gibberish. Once he appears as a yeti. Once with a motorcycle helmet
and a vacuum cleaner. These characters, who seem unrelated to Mr. Zimmerman's
main clown, interrupt and erode the more successful passages.

Well before ''Hallo'' said its goodbye, I was rooting for the scenery.

­''Hallo'' runs through Saturday at the Brooklyn Academy of Music; 718-636-4100,
bam.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/theater/review-hallo-stars-martin-zimmerman-fi
ghting-off-the-scenery.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hallo: This solo show, part of the Next Wave festival at the
Brooklyn Academy of Music, stars the Swiss choreographer Martin Zimmerman.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); THEATER (78%);
CHOREOGRAPHY (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Where Spiritual and Spectacular Meet

BYLINE: By TED LOOS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words


NEW CANAAN, Conn. -- A group of friends and neighbors thought that this area
could use a new community center with a spiritual underpinning.

So they built one.

But Grace Farms, as the project is called, will never be mistaken for a modest
Amish barn-raising. In this corner of Connecticut, budgets are less tight than
elsewhere. The nonprofit, tax-exempt Grace Farms Foundation spent around $120
million on the new center -- a price that included the purchase of 80 acres of
some of the most expensive real estate in the region.

It hired the Japanese architecture firm Sanaa, which later won the Pritzker
Prize, to design an ultramodern building that features, among other bells and
whistles, five site-specific works by art stars. And the finished complex, which
opened on Oct. 9, takes the concept of ''multifunctional'' to a new extreme:
Grace Farms is a nature center, gym, hub for social justice groups, community
garden and a part-time ecumenical chapel -- and that is only a partial list.

The main building, called the River, is a sinuous form that winds its way down a
hill just a few hundred yards from the New York border, with five separate
sections. Large glass walls provide views of forests and meadows; its covered
roof twists and turns with the landscape.

''This is exactly what we hoped for,'' said Sharon Prince, the president of
Grace Farms Foundation, as V.I.P. visitors and journalists milled for a first
look at the 83,000-square-foot building.

The ''we'' she referred to are well-to-do friends -- led by Ms. Prince and her
husband, the hedge fund executive Robert P. Prince of Bridgewater Associates --
and more than 100 donors. They joined forces to create a hybrid entity that many
will find easy to admire in part but that may be harder to comprehend as a
whole.

The inaugural weekend activities at Grace Farms, which is open to the public,
reflected that wide-ranging vision. Cliffe Knechtle, the pastor of the
nondenominational Grace Community Church, gave a blessing. The church occupies a
Sanaa-converted barn on the property and holds Sunday services in the 700-seat
portion of the River called the Sanctuary. Grace Farms, while a separate entity,
was founded by some of the same people who founded the church almost 15 years
ago, including the Princes. Then there was a panel discussion featuring artists
who have done installations on the site, including Teresita Fernández and Thomas
Demand. At night, Krishna Patel, Grace Farms's director of justice initiatives,
discussed the organization's campaign against child trafficking. Later, the Paul
Taylor Dance Company performed.

And that was only the first day. On Saturday, 2,500 people came to sample
another busy slate of activities.

''My wife brought me here as a surprise,'' said Gordon Schnell, a lawyer who
lives in neighboring Westchester County. ''It's gorgeous and inspiring.''

The spiritual aspect of Grace Farms was attractive to Mr. Schnell. ''The thing
that caught my eye is that they say they welcome people of all faiths, or no
faith at all,'' he said. ''I want to know more about that.''

The project was initially approved partly for religious purposes. The myriad
functions of Grace Farms even stumped the architects at first. ''When we first
met with Sharon, it was difficult to understand what Grace Farms was to be,''
Kazuyo Sejima, the co-principal of Sanaa, said in an email. Now that the project
is completed, she added, ''it is clear that what they had in mind the whole time
was a new kind of public space.''

The primary concept was for the building to melt into the landscape. ''When we
said we want the building to disappear into nature, they lit up,'' recalled Ms.
Prince of her meetings with Sanaa.

Ms. Prince was admittedly a client with very specific requests. ''We asked for
no front door -- total porosity,'' she said. ''We didn't want a threshold that
gives you a second thought about entering.''

The Princes are among the donors but they declined to disclose amounts or the
names of other contributors. Grace Farms will play host to nonprofit groups to
be determined.

Although it will be open to public use, some of the neighbors haven't always
been happy about the project's scale and subjected the zoning permit to multiple
appeals to New Canaan's Planning and Zoning Commission over six years.

To respond to local concerns, Grace Farms added berms around the property,
altered the design of the parking lot and had the traffic tested. An amended
permit was approved in 2013.

In the end, the naysayers were no match for Ms. Prince.

''It's hard to tell Sharon 'No,' and I say that in an affectionate way,'' said
Jay Fielden, the editor in chief of Town & Country and a board member of the
Grace Farms Foundation. Mr. Fielden, who lives nearby, got to know Ms. Prince
when his house burned down; the Princes took him and his family into their home
temporarily.

Ms. Prince has an M.B.A. from the University of Tulsa, where she met her
husband. While raising their three children, she had also been involved with
various businesses as an entrepreneur.

So far, Grace Farms has a staff of 25 but no executive director, and Ms. Prince
has been largely filling that role.

''Sharon is the juggernaut behind all this, the heartbeat,'' said Peter King
Hunsinger, the chief revenue officer of Golf Digest. He and his wife, Jane, are
donors to Grace Farms and are among the original core members of Grace Community
Church.

''Each step of the process has been informed by the ideals of Christian faith,
but it's not a place that's about proselytizing,'' Mr. Fielden said.

Because of the overlap between the church founders and the movers behind the
Grace Farms, Ms. Prince took pains to note their separation. ''We're not
building a church,'' she said pointedly.

In addition to donating space to nonprofit groups, exposing visitors to art is
part of the stated mission, too. The artist Olafur Eliasson, who contributed a
site-specific work called ''Mat for multidimensional prayers,'' said, ''Once I
looked at the project, I realized it overlapped with my sense of spirituality a
great deal.''

Nicholas Wolterstorff, a professor emeritus at Yale who has written widely on
theology, reviewed the plans for Grace Farms and said the crosscurrents coming
together made it noteworthy.

''In the olden days, most art was connected to the church, except for the
aristocracy,'' Mr. Wolterstorff said. ''Here,'' he added, ''by putting them
under the same roof, they are separate but together.''

Those close to the project acknowledged that its lack of a single focus was the
biggest hurdle.

''In this robust celebration, how does one specify one's ambition?'' said
Miroslav Volf, a theology professor at Yale who is on the foundation's board.
''It will require constant attention to carry the vision through the entire
project.''

Fatou Niang, a local real estate agent attending the opening, said she saw Grace
Farms simply as a local attraction. ''It's an extra element for the city, to
bring people who see New Canaan as a retreat,'' she said. ''We have the Philip
Johnson Glass House, and now this.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/arts/design/thespiritual-and-spectacular-meet-
at-an-ultramodern-community-center-in-connecticut.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The walkway to the River, the main building of Grace Farms, a
community center that houses a library, gymnasium, a mess hall and an
amphitheater. (C1)
 Sharon Prince, president of Grace Farms Foundation, in front of the River
building, a sinuous form that was designed by the Japanese architecture firm
Sanaa. Below, the mess hall in the River. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER
CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (89%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS
(71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (67%); DANCE COMPANIES (60%);
DANCE (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (50%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (50%)

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gotham's Liabilities Attract Scrutiny

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1155 words


After financial woes led to a brush with death, the San Diego Opera turned for
leadership to David Bennett, who as executive director of Gotham Chamber Opera
in New York had seemed to prove that opera need not be done on a grand scale to
succeed.

But just months after Mr. Bennett left New York for the West Coast, it is
Gotham, not San Diego, that is suddenly shutting down. The company's board said
that it learned the true extent of Gotham's debts only when his successor went
through the books. Just as Mr. Bennett begins his first full season as the
general director of the still-fragile San Diego Opera, new details are emerging
about Gotham's final days, raising questions about his management.

Board members at Gotham, which announced its closing this month, said they were
told at a meeting in May that the company, whose budget was $1.9 million in the
2013 fiscal year, had $116,758 in outstanding liabilities. But its new executive
director, Edward Barnes, said in a recent interview that the figure climbed to
more than $600,000 by July, after he found invoices and debts that had not been
on the company's books.

Officials said that some artists have yet to be fully paid, including Luca
Veggetti, the director and choreographer who helped create Gotham's
well-reviewed production of ''The Tempest Songbook'' in March at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art. (Mr. Veggetti declined to comment.) The company's
2013 tax returns, which originally showed a small surplus, were amended last
month to reflect a small deficit. A workers' compensation insurance policy was
allowed to lapse, leading to a fine. And Mr. Bennett acknowledged in an
interview that he had spent on operating expenses money given to Gotham as a
restricted gift to create a new composing prize -- something that New York State
law seeks to discourage.

Mr. Bennett said that he had regularly briefed Gotham's board about its finances
and that he believes some of the growing liabilities were for expenses for the
now-canceled 2015-16 season. He noted that in recent years the company regularly
had to take out loans from board members to mount its productions. ''We were
without cash for basically two to three years,'' he said. ''And when that
happens, certainly, you pay things as you can.''

The San Diego Opera's board is supporting Mr. Bennett. Carol Lazier, its
president, who helped to revive the company after it decided last year to shut
down, said in a statement that the board was ''very pleased with the work David
has done for us and stands behind him.''

She said that at the San Diego Opera ''strong internal financial controls are in
place'' and that Mr. Bennett is assisted by a chief operations officer and a
three-person finance department. She said that the company's top financial
officials meet with the board's finance committee every month to review the
company's expenditures and financial obligations.

Gotham, by contrast, operated on a shoestring, with only four full-time
employees. Its board reviewed financial information provided by Mr. Bennett on a
quarterly basis, Johnnie Moore Hawkins, the board's vice president, wrote in an
email. He said that in recent years there had typically been a one-year lapse
before audits were done.

But Gotham's implosion -- just as Mr. Bennett, who had been with the company
since 2006, left for a higher-profile job whose $200,000-a-year salary is more
than twice what he made in New York -- has dismayed some at the company. Gotham
enjoyed a reputation for collegiality and had established an outsize presence in
New York's opera scene with creative productions led by its artistic director,
the conductor Neal Goren, who founded the company in 2000.

Mr. Bennett was known in the New York arts world as an affable, charming and
enthusiastic promoter of opera. Before joining Gotham, he was the managing
director of Dance New Amsterdam, a dance center in Manhattan that filed for
bankruptcy in 2013. He is on the board of directors of Opera America, a national
service organization for opera companies.

One transaction that has raised eyebrows since Mr. Bennett's departure involved
his handling of a restricted gift: a $25,000 grant Gotham received in 2013 from
the Jarvis & Constance Doctorow Family Foundation to establish the Catherine
Doctorow Prize for Music, a competition to commission a work for voice and
chamber ensemble. The grant application called for awarding the composer $15,000
-- David Hertzberg, a young composer, was chosen as its first winner -- and
stated that the rest of the money could be used to administer the prize.

The application, a copy of which was reviewed by The New York Times, states that
in accepting the grant Gotham agreed to use the money ''solely to support the
specific activities'' it mentions. But Mr. Hertzberg, who wrote a setting of
Wallace Stevens's ''Sunday Morning'' for soprano, string nonet and harp, was
paid only $5,000 of the $15,000 he was promised, company officials said. Gotham
officials said they discovered that Mr. Bennett had apparently spent the rest of
the grant money on operating expenses, which he acknowledged.

''We did receive the prize money, and the whole award was not given, so
certainly that was spent,'' Mr. Bennett said. ''Generally, as money is fungible,
we intended to have that paid back, the rest of it -- by the time that the
second half of the prize was awarded.''

Several lawyers who specialize in the laws governing nonprofits said that while
they could not comment on the specifics of the Gotham case, New York State law
contains provisions that seek to ensure that the recipients of restricted gifts
use them as their donors intended. Jason R. Lilien, a partner at Loeb & Loeb and
a former chief of the Charities Bureau of the New York State Attorney General's
office, wrote in an email that ''under New York law, restrictions imposed by
donors on gifts may generally be released or modified only by obtaining the
donor's consent or by obtaining court approval, upon notice to the Attorney
General.''

Suzanne Larson, the executive director of the Doctorow Family Foundation, said
in an email that Gotham had ''never asked permission to use the money in any way
other than for the Catherine Doctorow Prize for Music.'' The gift involved a
small amount of money for the company, but the episode highlights what some
former workers at Gotham described as a chaotic environment in which money was
tight, contracts were often entered into at the last minute and payments in
recent years were often delayed.

The composer, Mr. Hertzberg, is not only losing out on money he was promised,
but also on a performance of his piece: Gotham's sudden closing means that a
premiere of the work that had been planned for later this fall, and which was
supposed to be supported with money from another grant, has now been canceled.

''This news came as a complete shock to me,'' Mr. Hertzberg wrote in an email.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/arts/music/gotham-operas-liabilities-bring-scr
utiny.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, performers in the Gotham Chamber Opera's ''The Tempest
Songbook'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in March. Left, David Bennett, the
company's former executive director, who left for the San Diego Opera.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SAN DIEGO OPERA) (C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); OPERA (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(87%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUSINESS
CLOSINGS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); CHOREOGRAPHY
(65%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (63%); INSURANCE POLICIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (82%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); WEST USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Discredited Former Author Repays Harper's $10,000

BYLINE: By RAVI SOMAIYA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 465 words


Stephen Glass, one of journalism's most infamous fabulists, sent Harper's
Magazine a check for $10,000 this week as repayment for a discredited article he
had published there in 1998, and said he planned to repay other publications
that ran his fabricated work.

''I want to make right that part of my many transgressions,'' he wrote in a
letter to current and former magazine employees. ''I recognize that repaying
Harper's will not remedy my wrongdoing, make us even, or undo what I did wrong.
That said, I did not deserve the money that Harper's paid me and it should be
returned.''

Mr. Glass wrote that he had ''a vague memory that the magazine paid me
approximately $5,000 to $7,000,'' and that he hoped $10,000 would ''repay the
magazine with interest.''

Reached by email on Friday, Mr. Glass said he also planned to repay other
outlets -- a total that, by some estimates, could run into the hundreds of
thousands of dollars. He declined to comment further.

Mr. Glass was a rising star in journalism in the late 1990s, known for vivid
features at The New Republic, where he was an associate editor, and other
magazines. His work included an article in the February 1998 issue of Harper's
about his experiences becoming a phone-in psychic.

Later that year, after an editor at the website Forbes Digital Tool raised
questions about one of his articles about computer hackers, he was revealed as a
serial fabricator. The New Republic said that some of his articles were
completely made up, while others were partly so. The story of his fabrications,
and their uncovering, was made into a 2003 movie, ''Shattered Glass.''

Mr. Glass wrote a novel called ''The Fabulist,'' and in 2004, he moved to
California, where he became a clerk for a law firm. He passed the bar exam in
2006, but he was found morally unfit to practice law in 2009. An appeal to the
California Supreme Court failed last year, when the court ruled that he had
''failed to carry his heavy burden of establishing his rehabilitation and
current fitness.''

That ruling noted that, roughly between 2001 and 2004, Mr. Glass had sent about
100 handwritten letters of apology to those affected by his fabrications.

Giulia Melucci, a spokeswoman for Harper's, said that Mr. Glass had sent at
least one previous letter of apology to the magazine. She said that the
magazine's publisher, John R. MacArthur, has been asked more than once to vouch
for Mr. Glass as a candidate for admission to the California bar. He has
declined. But the magazine will be depositing the check Mr. Glass sent, she
said.

The letterhead Mr. Glass used to communicate with Harper's says he is now the
director of special projects for the law firm Carpenter, Zuckerman and Rowley.
It also has a line under his name that reads ''Not an Attorney.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/media/stephen-glass-repays-harpers-10
000-for-his-discredited-work.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING
(78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS
(68%); FICTION LITERATURE (68%); COMPUTER CRIME (67%); ADMISSION TO PRACTICE LAW
(66%); APPEALS (65%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); LAW
COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%)

COMPANY: FORBES INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (86%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bullet Fired From Street Hits Girl, 12, in Long Island Home

BYLINE: By LIAM STACK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 286 words


A 12-year-old girl on Long Island was critically injured on Friday when a bullet
fired from the street outside her house struck her in the head while she was
indoors, the police said.

The Nassau County Police Department said on Friday that the girl, whose name had
not yet been released, was in the living room of her home on Dartmouth Street in
Hempstead, N.Y., when someone fired the gun.

The bullet hit the girl around 5 p.m., the police said in a statement. They said
she was rushed to a nearby hospital and was in critical condition late Friday
night.

''They said, 'They shot up your son's house,' '' David Joyner, the girl's
grandfather, told reporters at the scene. ''They told me, 'Your granddaughter
was hit in the head.' ''

The police had not made any arrests as of late Friday, and were asking for the
public's assistance in the investigation.

James Greene, a neighbor, said that violence was unusual on Dartmouth Street, a
quiet stretch of tidy houses and neat lawns. But he said that the shooting on
Friday reminded him of the 2013 killing of a young man, Dante Quinones-Wright,
17, in the neighborhood.

''Right now it is very, very scary,'' said Mr. Greene, who said he has lived in
the neighborhood since 1964. ''One fellow was killed two years ago and now this
happened next door.''

Mr. Greene said that after the shooting on Friday he was ''giving serious
consideration'' to telling his grandchildren not to visit him at Christmas.

''This nice young lady goes to school and does everything right -- if there is
trouble she doesn't know anything about it,'' he said of the victim. ''A lot of
these young fellows hang out and get into something they shouldn't get into and
this is the result.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/nyregion/bullet-fired-from-street-hits-girl-12
-in-her-long-island-home.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); GUNSHOT
WOUNDS (89%); HEAD INJURIES (78%); ARRESTS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CHILDREN
(76%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fantasy Sports Trade Group Is Subpoenaed by Federal Grand Jury

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 699 words


A federal grand jury has issued a subpoena to the leading trade group for
fantasy sports as part of an investigation into the practices and legality of
the booming, unregulated daily fantasy sports industry, according to two people
involved in the industry.

The grand jury investigation is being conducted under the auspices of the United
States attorney's office in Tampa, Fla., which declined to comment. The group,
the Fantasy Sports Trade Association, which lobbies on behalf of leading sites
such as DraftKings and FanDuel, was the target of the subpoena, but a
spokeswoman declined to discuss it.

The scope of the investigation remained unclear, as did whether it was connected
to interviews that F.B.I. agents have been conducting -- according to people
contacted by them -- with competitors at daily fantasy sites.

The subpoena requested, among other materials, copies of the minutes from the
organization's board meetings, according to the two people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the case
publicly.

The trade association says it represents 300 members, and its board includes the
chief executives of DraftKings, Jason Robins, and FanDuel, Nigel Eccles, as well
as executives from investors and participants in the industry such as CBS Sports
Digital, Yahoo, Gannett and ESPN.

The daily fantasy sites have quickly grown into a multibillion-dollar business,
attracting players who pay an entry fee to the sites, draw up virtual rosters of
players and win cash prizes -- up to $2 million but typically more than $20 --
in contests based on the performance of athletes in real games.

But they have come under scrutiny for the way they handle sensitive data and
their aggressive recruitment of players, while some lawmakers and state
regulators see their games as a form of gambling that is prohibited by law. The
New York attorney general's office last week announced an inquiry into the
sites.

The Illinois Gaming Board said on Friday that it believed the daily fantasy
sports sites were illegal and that it would ask the state's attorney general,
Lisa Madigan, for an opinion next week.

On Thursday, Nevada regulators ruled that daily fantasy sports should be
considered gambling, not a game of skill, as websites like DraftKings and
FanDuel have long claimed, and ordered them to stop operating immediately in the
state until the companies and their employees received state gambling licenses.

The F.B.I. began contacting several prominent competitors in the contests, the
players said this week, shortly after an employee of DraftKings admitted to
releasing sensitive data before a game. The employee, a midlevel content
manager, then won $350,000 at a rival site, although DraftKings said he did not
have an advantage.

They also said that agents were examining whether the site encouraged and
accepted deposits and bets from states where the contests were prohibited.

At least five class-action lawsuits have been filed as well, alleging that fraud
has been committed by the two companies as they allowed employees with access to
proprietary data to gain an unfair advantage and prey on paying customers. They
also allege that some of the industry's top players employed automated computer
programs that targeted weak players as well as high-speed scripts that gave them
a substantial edge.

While state and federal lawmakers call for hearings and more stringent
regulations, state attorneys general and law enforcement officials are exploring
whether daily fantasy sports operations comply with existing laws.

The daily fantasy sites, worth billions of dollars on paper because of a surge
of investors, have exploded in popularity and have blanketed broadcasts of
football games with advertisements to lure more participants.

Major League Baseball and the N.B.A., networks such as NBC and Fox, and Comcast
and the team owners Robert K. Kraft of the New England Patriots and Jerry Jones
of the Dallas Cowboys are among the investors in the sites.

The controversy has not focused on so-called seasonal fantasy games, in which
players track made-up rosters over a season and usually compete with friends, or
not for money.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/fantasy-sports-trade-group-is-said-to-r
eceive-subpoena.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPOENAS (94%); GRAND JURY (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); SPORTS &
RECREATION (91%); FANTASY SPORTS (91%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS BUSINESS (90%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%);
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%);
US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); LITIGATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL
(78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%);
CLASS ACTIONS (71%); GAMBLING (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: LISA MADIGAN (50%)

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%)

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Fantasy Football Week 6: Rankings and Matchup Analysis

BYLINE: By JASON SABLICH and JUSTIN SABLICH

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 3079 words


So, selecting Le'Veon Bell in the first round of your fantasy football draft was
a pretty good idea after all.

That thought may have crossed the minds of those who drafted Jamaal Charles, who
will miss the remainder of the season with an A.C.L. injury. It's a painful
reminder of how much bad luck factors into fantasy success (or lack thereof).

It turns out that it has been a rough year for a lot of first-round fantasy
picks, with Dez Bryant missing an extended period of time, Andrew Luck and
Marshawn Lynch missing games and underperforming, and C. J. Anderson losing his
starting job.

There's also Eddie Lacy, the average third overall fantasy draft pick, averaging
only 9.1 fantasy points per game (35th best). We've been down this road before
with Lacy, who turned around his slow start last season in a major way, so we
wouldn't sell our shares just yet.

Meanwhile, Bell has averaged about 20 fantasy points per game in his three games
played, and if you were wise enough to have DeAngleo Williams backing him up for
the first two games of the season, you really didn't have to worry about Bell's
two-game suspension. Williams led all backs with 40.4 fantasy points over the
first two weeks.

What is even worse for Charles owners is that the Chiefs' backup running back
that they may have had stashed on their bench, Kniles Davis, is now expected to
take a back seat to Charcandrick West going forward. If you happened to snag
West off your league's waiver wire, start him this week as an RB2 against a
Vikings unit that ranks 26th against the run (125 Y.P.G.).

Be sure to check out our complete player rankings for N.F.L. Week 6. You can
also find us on Twitter at @5thDownFantasy.

Bengals (5-0) at Bills (3-2)

1 p.m. Line: Bengals by 3.5

Quarterback

Andy Dalton (CIN) -- Dalton is the best quarterback in fantasy football (you
read that right), after dropping 331 yards and scoring three touchdowns (one
rushing) against the formidable Seahawks defense. He has averaged 345 passing
yards with eight touchdowns over his last three starts. There's no reason not to
trust Dalton against the Bills (21.6 F.P.P.G. to QBs).

Tyrod Taylor (BUF) -- Given his M.C.L. injury and the tough matchup, it is
probably best to plan on other options at quarterback. The Bengals held Russell
Wilson, a better quarterback with similar skills, to 213 passing yards, 21
rushing yards and one touchdown and sacked him four times last weekend.

Running Back

Jeremy Hill/Gio Bernard (CIN) -- The Bills have the third-best run defense in
the N.F.L. (82.2 Y.P.G.). An opposing back has yet to top 49 yards against them
this season. The projected game script favors Bernard once again as the better
back to play.

LeSean McCoy/Karlos Williams/Dan Herron (BUF) -- McCoy returned to practice
Thursday but Williams did not. Check the injury report Sunday to see who ends up
starting. The Seattle rookie Thomas Rawls rushed for 169 yards, including a
69-yard touchdown, against the Bengals last Sunday. The Bengals rank 18th
against the run (108.6 Y.P.G.).

Wide Receiver/Tight End

A. J. Green/Marvin Jones (CIN) -- Green is matchup-proof, but it's worth noting
that the Bills' secondary has played well over the last two weeks, limiting
Odell Beckham Jr. to 38 yards on three grabs and Kendall Wright to 29 yards on
three catches.

Sammy Watkins (BUF) -- Watkins expects to play and said of his calf, ''If it
pops, it pops.'' His fantasy outlook hinges on whether Taylor joins him on the
field. For now, consider him a low-end WR3.

Tyler Eifert (CIN) -- The Bills limited Jordan Cameron, Larry Donnell and
Delanie Walker to 90 total yards and no touchdowns over the last three games.
It's tough to sit Eifert after his 90 yards and two touchdowns against Seattle
last weekend.

Charles Clay (BUF) -- The Bengals have yet to allow a touchdown to a tight end.
Taylor's absence would further downgrade Clay's fantasy outlook.

Broncos (5-0) vs. Browns (2-3)

1 p.m. Line: Broncos by 4

Quarterback

Peyton Manning (DEN) -- The struggling legend remains low-end QB1, only because
the Browns have yielded four-straight 20-point performances to Marcus Mariota,
Derek Carr, Philip Rivers and Joe Flacco.

Running Back

Ronnie Hillman/C. J. Anderson (DEN) -- Nobody allows more fantasy points to the
position than the Browns and their 31st-ranked run defense, but both backs are
sharing carries and can't be trusted as more than low-end RB2/flex options.

Isaiah Crowell/Duke Johnson (CLE) -- You really cannot trust any back in this
game. The Browns' running back committee will be up against the fifth-best run
defense in the league.

Tight End

Gary Barnidge (CLE) -- The Broncos haven't allowed a touchdown or more than 61
passing yards to any tight end this season. Barnidge had 139 yards on eight
receptions in a tough matchup last weekend, so he's tough to sit.

Bears (2-3) at Lions (0-5)

1 p.m. Line: Lions by 3

Quarterback

Matthew Stafford (DET) -- Stafford remains the starter despite just 241 yards
per game and six touchdowns compared with eight interceptions. The Bears have
held the quarterbacks Wilson, Carr and Alex Smith to a 14-point fantasy average
over the last three weeks, and over all rank second in the league against the
pass. Start at your own risk.

Jay Cutler (CHI) -- The Lions are the sixth-best fantasy matchup for
quarterbacks (19 F.P.P.G.). They've allowed opponents to complete 76 percent of
their passes, the highest rate in the N.F.L. Cutler would be a high-end QB2 play
if his star receiver, Alshon Jeffery, can return.

Running Back

Ameer Abdullah (DET) -- His two fumbles landed him on the bench last weekend. He
has averaged just 2.4 Y.P.G over his last four and has scored just once. Joique
Bell's expected return is another reason to stay away from Abdullah this
weekend.

Wide Receiver/Tight End

Calvin Johnson/Golden Tate (DET) -- The Bears permit the 11th most fantasy
points to the position. Johnson owners have been rightfully frustrated, but we
would wait one more week before giving up hope.

Alshon Jeffery/Eddie Royal/Marquess Wilson (CHI) -- Wilson (8 targets/85 yards/1
TD versus Kansas City) would be in the WR3 mix again if Jeffery or Royal were to
sit out. Jeffery returned to practice this week, Royal did not. The Lions are
tied with five other teams for the fourth most touchdown passes allowed and
yield the ninth most fantasy points to receivers.

Martellus Bennett (CHI) -- The Lions allow the sixth most fantasy points to the
position (9.3 F.P.P.G.). He remains an elite option despite last weekend's
letdown.

Dolphins (1-3) at Titans (1-3)

1 p.m. Line: Titans by 1

Quarterback

Ryan Tannehill (MIA) -- The Titans are the best team against the pass (188
Y.P.G.) and ninth in sacks, making Tannehill a low-end QB1 play.

Marcus Mariota (TEN) -- The Dolphins have just one sack and three interceptions
on the season. Start Mariota with confidence.

Running Back

Lamar Miller (MIA) -- The Titans have allowed 113 yards per game on the ground
(23rd in N.F.L.), so the Dolphins should be able to lean on their ground game,
but Miller has not topped 13 carries in a game all season.

Bishop Sankey/Antonio Andrews (TEN) -- A great matchup, with the Dolphins
ranking last against the run, but who in this backfield committee can you trust?

Wide Receiver/Tight End

Kendall Wright (TEN) -- Wright voiced his dismay over his limited role last
weekend against the Bills. That could lead to more looks against a weak Miami
secondary that allows the eighth most points to the position.

Delanie Walker (TEN) -- A low-end TE1 option against a Miami secondary that has
allowed 153 yards and two scores to the position in five games.

Jordan Cameron (MIA) -- The Titans have held tight ends to 4.5 F.P.P.G. over the
last three weeks. Cameron remains a TE1 play, but a frustrating one who has yet
to see the end zone this year.

Chiefs (1-4) at Vikings (2-2)

1 p.m. Line: Vikings by 4

Teddy Bridgewater (MIN) -- Bridgewater gets the best fantasy matchup for
quarterbacks, but has yet to throw more than one touchdown in a game and spends
most of his time handing off to Adrian Peterson. He's still only a QB2 play.

Alex Smith (KC) -- The Vikings held quarterbacks Rivers and P. Manning to a
combined 18.1 fantasy points before their bye. Look elsewhere for your QB2
needs.

Wide Receiver/Tight End

Jeremy Maclin (KC) -- He is averaging 125 yards per game and double-digit
targets over the last three contests. He could be seeing even more looks in
light of the Charles injury. The Vikings are considered a middle-of-the-road
matchup, allowing the 18th most points to opposing receivers.

Mike Wallace (MIN) -- Wallace is fresh off a bye, as well as his best
performance of the season, and is up against the most favorable matchup for his
position this week. Opposing receivers have eclipsed 20 fantasy points in three
of the Chiefs' five games this season.

Kyle Rudolph (MIN) -- The Chiefs limited tight ends Eifert and Bennett to a
combined seven catches, 101 yards and no touchdowns over the last two games, and
Rudolph has continued to disappoint. Look elsewhere.

Redskins (2-3) at Jets (3-1)

1 p.m. Line: Jets by 7

Quarterback

Ryan Fitzpatrick (NYJ) -- The depleted Redskins secondary played exceptionally
well against the Falcons' Matt Ryan last weekend despite missing their starting
corners, DeAngelo Hall and Chris Culliver. Fitzpatrick remains a low-end QB2
play.

Running Back

Chris Ivory/Bilal Powell (NYJ) -- The Redskins' run defense was the best unit in
the league before they ran into the unstoppable force better known as Devonta
Freeman (153 yards, 1 TD).

Matt Jones/Alfred Morris (WAS) -- Avoid both Redskins backs if possible against
the Jets' elite run defense, which is surrendering the second fewest fantasy
points to running backs.

Wide Receiver

Brandon Marshall/Eric Decker (NYJ) -- As noted earlier, Washington's secondary
is missing its two best corners and has permitted double-digit fantasy points to
the position in three of their five games. Start both Jets receivers with
confidence.

Pierre Garcon/Jamison Crowder (WAS) -- Top receiving options T. Y. Hilton,
Jordan Matthews and Jarvis Landry have averaged 44.6 yards and no TDs against
the Jets over the last three games. Garcon is not a recommended option this
weekend.

Cardinals (4-1) at Steelers (3-2)

1 p.m. Line: Cardinals by 3

Quarterback

Carson Palmer (ARI) -- The Steelers are allowing 22 F.P.P.G. to quarterbacks and
were just torched by Rivers for 365 yards and two touchdowns last week.

Running Back

Chris Johnson/David Johnson/Andre Ellington (ARI) -- The Steelers permit the
fifth fewest fantasy points to opposing backs. Chris Johnson heads the committee
as a low-end RB2 option this week.

Wide Receiver

Antonio Brown/Martavis Bryant (PIT) -- Brown's matchup with the Cardinals' top
corner, Patrick Peterson, and the hideous play of Michael Vick make him more a
WR2 play this weekend. Bryant is expected to be active for the first time this
season.

Texans (1-4) at Jaguars (1-4)

1 p.m. Line: Even

Quarterback

Blake Bortles (JAC) -- The Texans have held quarterbacks to an average 14.4
fantasy points over the last three games.Bortles is also dealing with a shoulder
sprain. There are better QB2 options this week.

Running Back

T. J. Yeldon (JAC) -- Yeldon missed practice Wednesday with the same groin
injury that forced him to leave the Week 5 game. Factor in Denard Robinson's
likely return and Yeldon becomes a dicey low-end RB2 option if he indeed suits
up.

Arian Foster (HOU) -- Doug Martin gashed this unit for 158 total yards and three
scores last weekend. Over all, the Jaguars have allowed the fifth most fantasy
points to the position.

Wide Receiver

DeAndre Hopkins (HOU) -- Receivers Julian Edelman, Hilton and Mike Evans
averaged just 67 scoreless yards against the surprisingly stout Jacksonville
secondary. But Hopkins, the second-highest scoring receiver in P.P.R. leagues,
starts every week.

Allen Robinson/Allen Hurns (JAC) -- The poor health of Bortles could cap
Robinson's ceiling this weekend. The Texans have allowed the fifth lowest target
percentage caught and the ninth fewest yards after catch.

Panthers (4-0) at Seahawks (2-3)

4:05 p.m. Line: Seahawks by 8

Quarterback

Russell Wilson (SEA) -- The Panthers have permitted just 12 fantasy points per
game to the position through four games. They are also tied for second in
interceptions (8). The N.F.L.'s most sacked quarterback entering Week 6 (22) is
a safer QB2 play this weekend.

Cam Newton (CAR) -- Seattle is permitting 16 F.P.P.G. a week to the position,
even with Dalton's big day last weekend. Newton is a weak play on the road this
Sunday in his toughest matchup thus far this year.

Running Back

Marshawn Lynch (SEA) -- Lynch is expected to come back on Sunday and returns to
must-start weekly status despite Carolina's sixth-ranked run defense.

Jonathan Stewart (CAR) -- Seattle is the worst matchup a fantasy back can have.
The Seahawks are allowing just 92 scoreless rushing yards per game. Look
elsewhere.

Tight End

Greg Olsen (CAR) -- Cincinnati's Eifert had 90 receiving yards and two
touchdowns against the Seahawks last weekend. They are now considered the fifth
best tight end matchup in fantasy.

Chargers (2-3) at Packers (5-0)

4:25 p.m. Line: Packers by 11.5

Quarterback

Philip Rivers (SD) -- The Packers are the fourth-toughest team for a fantasy
quarterback to oppose. Green Bay also ranks second in sacks with 20, which
doesn't bode well for the Chargers' injury-riddled offensive line.

Running Back

Eddie Lacy (GB) -- The Chargers have surrendered an average of 28 F.P.P.G. to
the position over the last three games. Start Lacy with confidence.

Melvin Gordon/Danny Woodhead (SD) -- Backs Matt Forte, Charles and Todd Gurley
have all lit up the Packers for 15 or more fantasy points this season. Both
Chargers backs can be considered low-end RB2 options in standard formats.

Wide Receiver

Keenan Allen/Stevie Johnson (SD) -- The Packers are the fourth-toughest team on
opposing fantasy wide receivers. The return of Antonio Gates further degrades
Allen's Week 6 appeal. Johnson has missed practice all week and appears
doubtful.

Tight End

Richard Rodgers (GB) -- The Chargers have yielded three double-digit fantasy
performances to the position and represent the 10th-best matchup for the
position. Play him where needed.

Ravens (1-4) at 49ers (1-4)

4:25 p.m. Line: Ravens by 1

Quarterback

Joe Flacco (BAL) -- E. Manning torched this unit for 441 yards and three
touchdowns despite missing his starting wideouts for much of the second half.
We'll feel better about Flacco as a QB2 play if Steve Smith gets back on the
field.

Colin Kaepernick (SF) -- An encouraging performance against the Giants and an
outstanding matchup on paper (second best, 21 F.P.P.G.) make him a tempting
daily league play for the brave.

Running Back

Justin Forsett (BAL) -- The 49ers rank 17th against the run and allow the sixth
most fantasy points to running backs. Forsett missed practice with an ankle
injury. Buck Allen would be the lone Ravens back to start with Lorenzo
Taliaferro placed on I.R.

Wide Receiver

Steve Smith/Kamar Aiken (BAL) -- Smith returned to practice but is not
guaranteed to play. Opposing WR1s have totaled 494 yards, 30 receptions and 4
touchdowns over the last four weeks against the 49ers, so keep an eye on this
situation.

Anquan Boldin (SF) -- The Ravens have yielded 30 F.P.P.G. to the position, the
second most this season. Boldin is a solid WR3 play as the top option in the
49ers' passing game.

Patriots (4-0) at Colts (3-2)

8:30 p.m. Line: Patriots by 8

Running Back

Dion Lewis/LeGarrette Blount (NE) -- The Colts have allowed double-digit fantasy
performances to the position in four out of five games. We see Lewis as a
high-end RB2 and Blount as an RB3.

Frank Gore (IND) -- The Patriots rank 20th against the run but have played well
against the run over the last the weeks. Gore has played well of late as well,
with three touchdowns in his last three games. He remains a solid RB1 play.

Wide Receiver/Tight End

Julian Edelman (NE) -- The Colts have allowed a receiver to post 14 or more
fantasy points in each of the five games they have played.

Dwayne Allen/Coby Fleener (IND) -- New England did an outstanding job limiting
Jason Witten to 33 scoreless yards last weekend and is allowing 7.5 F.P.P.G. to
the position on the season.

Giants (3-2) at Eagles (2-3)

8:30 p.m. Monday. Line: Eagles by 4

Quarterback

Eli Manning (NYG) -- Manning is coming off his best game of the season, and one
of the best performances of his career, but the health of his receivers clouds
his Week 6 outlook. The matchup is a good one on paper, as the Eagles rank 27th
against the pass and have permitted the 11th most fantasy points to the
position.

Sam Bradford (PHI) -- The Giants' 30th-ranked pass defense gave up 20 fantasy
points to a struggling Kaepernick last Sunday night and has allowed 314 passing
yards per game on average. Bradford was still erratic last weekend, throwing two
interceptions, but managed 333 yards and 2 TDS. He's a low-end QB1 option.

Running Back

Rashad Jennings/Shane Vereen (NYG) -- No back has managed more than eight
standard league fantasy points against the Eagles' imposing front all season.
Vereen's role in the passing game could once again get a boost if any of the
starting wideouts miss the game, making him the only Giants back worth
consideration this week.

Wide Receiver/Tight End

Odell Beckham Jr./Rueben Randle (NYG) -- The status of Odell Beckham Jr. and
Reuben Randle will need to be monitored throughout the week. Dwayne Harris would
be a sneaky start against an Eagles secondary that is on the hook for the third
most fantasy points to the position this year.

Zach Ertz (PHI) -- The Giants are the fourth-best matchup a tight end can have
(13 F.P.P.G.). Even the 49ers backup Garrett Celek managed to score against
them, the fourth touchdown allowed to the position year. Ertz is worth low-end
TE1 consideration Monday night.

Larry Donnell (NYG) -- He could take on an expanded role this week with the
Giants' receiving corps as banged up as it is. The Eagles have permitted an
average of 5 F.P.P.G. to the position thus far.

The Sablich Brothers have provided award-winning fantasy football advice for The
Times since 2010. Follow them on Twitter @5thdownfantasy.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/fantasy-football-week-6-rankings-and-ma
tchup-analysis.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FANTASY SPORTS (92%); ATHLETES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS
(89%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Congregants Were Abused and Shamed at Church Where Fatal Beating Occurred,
Ex-Member Says

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN MUELLER; Kendra Szabo contributed reporting from Phoenix,
and Susan C. Beachy contributed research.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1055 words


The founder and longtime pastor at Word of Life Christian Church in New
Hartford, N.Y., shamed congregants from the pulpit, dredging up old sins and
recounting them at Sunday services, a former member said this week.

He demanded they redo the floors and fix the plumbing in his living quarters,
day after day for hours, until were sleep-deprived. Members who raised questions
were put on church discipline and sometimes forbidden to speak to others.

And the founder, Jerry Irwin, taught hate, using racial slurs during sermons,
according to the former member, Chadwick Handville.

In the aftermath of the brutal beating at the church that left one teenage
congregant dead and his younger brother seriously injured, investigators have
been trying to understand how that violent episode may have grown out of what
some described as a church culture of secrecy and isolation.

Mr. Handville defected from the church in 2000 after a decade of praying and
working there and now lives in Phoenix. He offered the first detailed public
account since the teenager's death on Monday of what happened behind the
church's locked gates and thick row of hedges.

''Everybody who's gone there is a victim of abuse,'' he said in a phone
interview on Thursday. ''This was a cult. This was not a church; I don't care
what words they use on the building. The spirit of that place was not freedom.''

He added, ''It ruined a lot of lives.''

Mr. Handville, 47, a licensed massage therapist and writer who remains deeply
religious, said he had been a member of Word of Life for several years when Mr.
Irwin returned to New Hartford in the early 1990s and retook control of the
church, which occupies a three-story former schoolhouse. (Mr. Irwin had founded
the church in the 1980s before he briefly moved away and ceded leadership, Mr.
Handville said.)

The pastor kicked out the old, gentler leadership and made himself answerable to
nobody, Mr. Handville recalled.

''Soon he became the only authority in that church, the sole authority,'' he
said. ''Then things broke down: respect for each other, respect for the law,
respect for other people.''

Mr. Irwin decided to take over the third floor of the former schoolhouse as
living quarters for himself, his wife, Traci Irwin, and their children, Mr.
Handville said. He said the pastor asked congregants -- there were roughly 30
serious followers -- to do the physical labor required to overhaul the space and
add a play area for the children.

That included redoing the floors, plumbing, electrical wiring, gas lines and
structural work, Mr. Handville said. Mr. Irwin also demanded that parishioners
mow the grass, paint walls and perform routine maintenance work. The projects
sometimes required that they break building codes and flout guidance from
inspectors, Mr. Handville said.

Mr. Handville, who spoke earlier to The Utica Observer-Dispatch about the
church, said he would sometimes arrive there after trying to spend time with his
wife or children, or from working his day job, only to be forced into more hours
of physical labor at the church.

''They sleep-deprive you because you become open to suggestions, usually what
they're teaching you,'' Mr. Handville said. ''They're breaking you down so they
can build you up the way they want to.''

Mr. Irwin died several years ago. He handed leadership to his wife, who the
authorities said was the current spiritual leader; congregants call her Mother.

Their daughter, Tiffanie Irwin, 29, is the pastor. The authorities said she
called the teenage brothers to a counseling session at the church after Sunday
services because she was concerned the older brother, Lucas Leonard, 19, would
leave the church.

Mr. Leonard was pronounced dead on Monday after the 10-hour beating ended, and
his brother, Christopher Leonard, 17, remained hospitalized with serious
injuries. Their parents, Bruce T. Leonard, 65, and Deborah Leonard, 59, have
been charged with first-degree manslaughter. One of Mr. Irwin's sons, Joseph
Irwin, 26, was among four other church members who were charged with assault in
the beating.

Messages left for members of the Irwin family this week have not been answered,
and a lawyer for Joseph Irwin did not respond to a message left for him on
Thursday.

Mr. Handville recalled Bruce Leonard and his wife as frequent targets of Mr.
Irwin's abuse, even though he said the elder Mr. Leonard was a hard worker who
loved his children and always made time for them.

''They were always on church discipline,'' Mr. Handville said of the Leonards.
''They were always bullied spiritually.''

He said church discipline meant that Mr. Irwin would forbid other congregants to
sit next to offenders at church, to talk them or to go to their houses for
dinner.

''You were kind of being shamed or shunned, what Jerry would call out of a
rebellious state,'' Mr. Handville said. ''He used that technique often.''

He said that he never knew Mr. Irwin to strike or hurt members, and that he
never saw anyone physically abused at the church.

But, Mr. Handville said: ''I felt threatened spiritually, I felt threatened
emotionally. He was very manipulative and very sly.''

The church emphasized serious Bible study. Mr. Handville said at one point he
had half of the Scriptures memorized.

But, he added, ''There were sometimes racial slurs.'' He said Mr. Irwin would
also ''speak harshly'' to congregants at regular services, speaking about past
sins in an effort to humiliate them.

''We were always told we were so rebellious,'' Mr. Handville said. ''I think
that was so that we would do what we were told -- plain and simple.''

When parishioners challenged Mr. Irwin's methods or asked him unwanted
questions, as Mr. Handville did toward the end of his tenure, Mr. Irwin lashed
out, he said.

Mr. Handville said he was put on church discipline shortly before he left. He
and his family were living in a mobile home owned by another parishioner, who
evicted them under pressure from Mr. Irwin, he said.

He said he had made a clean break with the church, undergoing counseling and
relearning a gentler form of Christianity. He said he forgave Mr. Irwin for the
pain he inflicted.

But Mr. Irwin apparently did not forget him; Mr. Handville heard from other
members that he remained the target of angry Sunday sermons even after he left.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/nyregion/congregants-were-abused-and-shamed-at
-church-where-fatal-beating-occurred-ex-member-says.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (89%); RACISM & XENOPHOBIA (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); CULTS
& SECTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); WRITERS (64%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing | Africa; Ethiopia: Acquittals for Journalists

BYLINE: By JACEY FORTIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 236 words


ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia -- Defendants in one of the world's most widely followed
press-freedom cases were acquitted of terrorism charges on Friday.

Nine bloggers and journalists, most of them contributors to Zone 9, a blog
critical of the government, were arrested in April 2014 and charged under
Ethiopia's sweeping antiterrorism law. Another was abroad and charged in
absentia.

The case became a rallying point for critics of Ethiopia's government, which has
been accused of stifling free speech.

Five defendants were unexpectedly released in July. On Friday, judges in a court
in Ethiopia's capital, Addis Ababa, decided that for those still imprisoned,
''the documents presented by the prosecutor were not sufficient to prove the
alleged terrorism,'' said Ameha Mekonnen, a defense lawyer in the case.

One defendant remains on trial under separate charges of provoking violence.

Press freedom advocates welcomed the news. ''We are elated that the terrorism
charges against the Zone 9 bloggers are dropped,'' Tom Rhodes, the East Africa
representative of the Committee to Protect Journalists, said in a statement. He
urged the authorities to abandon its prosecution of the remaining defendant.

''Ethiopia should be listening to critical voices to strengthen democracy and
development, not jailing them,'' Mr. Rhodes said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/africa/ethiopia-zone-9-defendants.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF PRESS (91%); ACQUITTAL (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WRITERS
(90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); ARRESTS (78%);
LAWYERS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%)

CITY: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (93%)

COUNTRY: ETHIOPIA (95%); AFRICA (88%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Egg Donors Want Room to Name Their Price

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1546 words


On their websites, next to glossy pictures of babies, some fertility clinics and
egg-donor agencies refer to eggs as a ''priceless gift'' from caring young women
who want to help people with fertility problems. There is a price tag for eggs,
though, and it is now the subject of a legal battle.

In a federal lawsuit, a group of women are challenging industry guidelines that
say it is ''inappropriate'' to pay a woman more than $10,000 for her eggs. The
women say the $10,000 limit amounts to illegal price-fixing, and point out that
there is no price restriction on the sale of human sperm. A federal judge has
certified the claim as a class action, which will most likely go to trial next
year.

The guidelines do not have the force of law, though they have been widely
followed. But demand for eggs has increased and put pressure on their price. So
some high-end fertility clinics and egg-donor agencies are ignoring the
guidelines and paying far more -- on rare occasions in the six figures -- while
donors are shopping around to get the best price.

The case could shake up the $80 million egg-donor market by spurring more
negotiation. It is a potent reminder that egg donation is a big business, though
one with many more inherent ethical issues than others.

''The lawsuit is raising awareness of the commodification of the whole thing,
and that's good,'' said Sierra Poulson, 28, a lawyer in Nebraska not involved
with the case, and a founder of the online forum We Are Egg Donors. ''The
guidelines are skewed toward the intended parents, toward the industry making
more money and business,'' Ms. Poulson said. ''We're in America -- the market
would take care of itself without guidelines.''

Ms. Poulson, a three-time donor, is an example of how the market works. She was
paid $3,000 for each of her first two donations, in Kansas, but $10,000 in
Chicago for the last. ''The third time I donated, the only reason was for the
money,'' she said.

As women wait longer to start their families, and find their fertility has
waned, the demand for eggs from young donors -- typically, donors are in their
20s -- has risen rapidly. Cancer survivors, older women whose eggs are past
their prime, and gay and straight couples using surrogates to carry their
children used donor eggs in nearly 20,000 monthly cycles in 2012, compared with
fewer than 12,000 a decade earlier, according to the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, which collects statistics on assisted reproduction.

While many other countries limit egg donation and the compensation that is
allowed, egg donation is essentially unregulated in the United States. But in
2000, the American Society for Reproductive Medicine established the guidelines
for how much women should be paid. They say that compensation over $5,000
requires ''justification,'' and that more than $10,000 is ''beyond what is
appropriate.'' The amounts have never been adjusted.

The society argues that capping the price ensures that low-income young women
are not drawn to donate by a huge payout without considering how it may affect
their lives.

''If the compensation became too high, there is a concern that it might be
incentive for donors to lie about their medical history,'' said Tripp Monts, a
lawyer representing the society. ''And it could induce young women to donate
without thinking too far down the road.''

He also took issue with the idea that the guidelines represented price-fixing.

''The guidelines are just that, guidelines,'' he said. ''They're not a cap, as
has been portrayed.''

But the American Society for Reproductive Medicine and its sister group, the
Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology, also a defendant, are membership
groups that require the clinics and doctors who join to abide by their ethical
standards.

The whole question of compensation for eggs is uncomfortable, raising issues of
exploitation of low-income young women who are seeking to make money.

Reflecting a distaste in the United States for the idea of selling body parts,
the women providing the eggs are referred to as donors, and at least
theoretically are paid not for their eggs, but for the inconvenience, discomfort
and health risks involved in the process of harvesting. That process requires
weeks of hormone injections to stimulate the ovaries, and endurance of
ultrasounds and surgery.

Many egg donors and women's health advocates say there is a pressing need for
more research on whether the high doses of hormones that women must take
increase the risk of cancer or infertility, especially among repeat donors.

Some advocate the creation of a database to track donors' health history; others
suggest urging them to freeze some of the eggs to use themselves should they
later develop cancer or become infertile.

But it is intrinsic to the process that doctors, clinics and agencies who
recruit donors and harvest the eggs focus less on donors' interests than on
getting what the recipients paid for.

''Our whole system makes no sense,'' said Debora L. Spar, the president of
Barnard College and the author of a book on the assisted reproduction industry.
''We cap the price because of the yuck factor of commodifying human eggs, when
we should either say, 'Egg-selling is bad and we forbid it,' as some countries
do, or 'Egg-selling is O.K., and the horse is out of the barn, but we're going
to regulate the market for safety.' ''

Currently, most first-time donors in California, New York and Chicago are paid
$4,000 to $7,000, more than in other parts of the country. (The price generally
includes all eggs harvested in a cycle, whether used fresh or frozen.) The pay
can rise significantly for repeat donors whose first set of eggs led to a birth.
But donors are becoming more savvy in seeking compensation. And mindful of the
booming market, a growing number of fertility clinics have started their own
in-house egg programs.

''The market has exploded and become much more competitive, and you see the same
donor listed on several different sites,'' said Lesa A. Slaughter, a
reproductive lawyer in Los Angeles.

Some high-end fertility clinics and egg-donor agencies ignore the guidelines and
pay more for eggs from particularly attractive donors: actresses, models,
Asians, Jewish women and Ivy League students with high SAT scores.

''For us, a first-time Asian donor might get $10,000-$25,000, and a repeat donor
might get to $40,000, occasionally $50,000,'' said Darlene Pinkerton, a founder
of A Perfect Match, an agency in Southern California. ''Maybe twice, it's been
$75,000. It's gotten much more competitive now that there's a new agency opening
almost every week.''

Andrew Vorzimer, a lawyer in Woodland Hills, Calif., who specializes in
reproductive law and formerly owned an egg-donation business, said, ''I've
drafted contracts for egg donors in the six figures.''

''The guidelines are a joke,'' he said. ''There's no teeth.''

Mr. Vorzimer said he believed that some guidelines were necessary -- both to
prevent exploitation of younger women, and to prevent prices from rising so high
that only the richest families would have access to donor eggs.

Sperm donors typically receive $75 to $100 for their comparatively carefree
contribution: There is no shortage of attractive, educated donors. According to
the complaint in the egg donors' lawsuit, Kamahaki v. American Society for
Reproductive Medicine, the women's pay rates were originally set by taking the
sperm donor compensation, calculating the amount of time men had to spend in a
medical setting, and multiplying it by the much longer time women spent when
donating eggs.

''Since the process of donating eggs is far more painful and risky than is the
process for donating sperm, a price paid for donor services that does not
account for those differences must be artificially low,'' the complaint said.

Neither the egg donors named as plaintiffs in the case nor their lawyers would
discuss the case, which could affect potentially thousands of women who have
donated eggs since April 2007 at any fertility clinic or egg donation business
that followed the guidelines.

Ms. Poulson, the egg donor in Nebraska and co-founder of the online forum, said
the experience of donating was often very isolating.

''We support the lawsuit because the world of egg donation is opaque,'' a
statement from the forum said. ''We need transparent discussions about how,
exactly, the professionalization of egg donation continues to impact the
transaction and care we receive. The fertility industry is keenly interested in
recruiting new and healthy donors, but generally gives little regard to what
happens to us when the eggs are gone.''

Maggie Eastman, 34, of Puyallup, Wash., donated her eggs 10 times before being
diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer in January 2014. Each time a doctor
called to request her eggs, she said, she felt uncomfortable turning down
someone who needed her help to have a baby -- and, she said, no one ever told
her that six donations was the recommended limit.

Ms. Eastman said she was paid $1,600 the first time she donated, and $2,000 each
time after.

''It paid off my undergraduate student loans, almost,'' she said. ''I didn't
know how much other people were getting. There was no one to ask.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/us/egg-donors-challenge-pay-rates-saying-they-
shortchange-women.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sierra Poulson at her home in Omaha. Ms. Poulson, who has
donated her eggs three times, was paid $3,000 for each of her first two
donations, in Kansas, and $10,000 in Chicago for the last. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN
HENRIKSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); REPRODUCTIVE
HEALTH CLINICS (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); LITIGATION (90%); WOMEN
(90%); TABLE EGG INDUSTRY (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); CLASS ACTIONS (76%);
US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUSINESS TORTS (76%); PRICE FIXING (76%); DISEASES
& DISORDERS (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%);
ETHICS (71%); JUDGES (71%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (71%); FAMILY (68%); CANCER (60%)

CITY: OMAHA, NE, USA (68%)

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Consumer Sentiment Rebounds, Bucking Trends

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 461 words


United States consumer sentiment rebounded strongly in early October, suggesting
that the economic recovery remained on track despite headwinds from a strong
dollar and weak global demand that have weighed on the country's industries.

The snapback in sentiment reported on Friday underscored robust domestic demand
and offered hope that consumer spending would remain solid enough to support
economic growth, which has slowed significantly in recent months.

The University of Michigan said its consumer sentiment index rose to 92.1 points
in early October from a reading of 87.2 in September. The survey's current
conditions subindex rose to 106.7 this month from 101.2 in September.

The index at current levels has historically been consistent with roughly a 4
percent annualized rate of consumer spending growth, according to economists.

''This suggests that U.S. household sentiment has turned an important corner,
and is a hopeful sign on the outlook for consumer spending activity going
forward, given signs of weakness in other parts of the economy,'' said Millan
Mulraine, deputy chief economist at TD Securities in New York.

The rise in sentiment, which probably reflected cheaper gasoline prices,
suggested limited impact from recent stock market volatility. Consumers were the
most optimistic about their personal financial expectations since 2007.

Consumer spending accounts for more than two-thirds of American economic
activity. It has been the bright spot in the economy as industry wobbles under
the onslaught of slowing global growth and the resurgent dollar, which have
eroded demand for goods made in the United States.

The economy is also being weighed down by a reduction in capital investment in
the energy industry because of lower oil prices, as well as an effort by
businesses to reduce their inventories.

In a separate report, the Federal Reserve said industrial output slipped 0.2
percent on renewed weakness in oil and gas drilling after dipping 0.1 percent in
August. Industrial production rose at an annual rate of 1.8 percent in the third
quarter.

''We do not expect the recent slowing to lead to a broader pullback in aggregate
growth, as service sector activity remains solid,'' said Jesse Hurwitz, an
economist at Barclays in New York.

Manufacturing accounts for about 12 percent of the domestic economy. Still, the
weak industrial production report added to soft trade, retail sales and
employment data that have pointed to a significant slowdown in growth after the
economy expanded at a 3.9 percent annual pace in the second quarter.

Third-quarter growth estimates are now around a 1.5 percent rate. Slower growth
and low inflation have diminished expectations of an interest rate increase from
the Federal Reserve this year.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/us-consumer-sentiment-rebounds-despit
e-weak-global-demand.html

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Industrial Production
 Capacity Utilization (Source: Federal Reserve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); OUTPUT & DEMAND (90%);
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT
(90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); TRENDS (90%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); PRICES
(89%); STATISTICS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%);
PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); INFLATION (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ENERGY &
UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LABOR SECTOR
PERFORMANCE (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (71%); SERVICE
SECTOR OUTPUT (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ELECTRIC
POWER INDUSTRY (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); GASOLINE MARKETS (66%); OIL
EXTRACTION (63%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

To Craft Miserly Defense, Michigan Assistant Gives All

BYLINE: By MARC TRACY

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1173 words


ANN ARBOR, Mich. --  During the 1998 and 1999 seasons, Marshall's football team
lost only one game. It came on Halloween 1998, when the Thundering Herd, then
8-0, traveled to Bowling Green, which was 2-5.

On the opening drive, quarterback Chad Pennington drove Marshall to the Bowling
Green 18-yard-line before the Falcons sophomore D. J. Durkin sacked him.
Pennington fumbled the ball and recovered it, but Marshall had the wind knocked
out of it.

''D. J. set the tone right away, got after them really good,'' Eric Curl, who
was a Bowling Green offensive lineman, said, recalling the Falcons' 34-13 upset.

Durkin, 37, is now Michigan's first-year defensive coordinator, and his new job
is off to an equally auspicious start. No. 12 Michigan (5-1, 2-0 Big Ten) has
recorded three consecutive shutouts -- the first top-tier college football team
to do so in 20 years -- as it prepares to host No. 7 Michigan State (6-0, 2-0)
here Saturday afternoon. The game involves not only state bragging rights and
conference pecking order but historical implications: The last time a similar
team blanked four opponents in a row was reportedly in 1931.

Michigan's defense, featuring budding stars such as cornerback Jourdan Lewis, a
junior, and safety Jabrill Peppers, a redshirt freshman, has allowed only 181.3
yards and 6.3 points per game, second-best and best in the Football Bowl
Subdivision. Its personality can be summed up in Durkin's mantra of choice:
''Stamp your personality.''

''That was my way of saying, 'Yeah, we'll teach you how to play a position, a
scheme, but it's not robotic,' '' Durkin said Friday. ''Go above and beyond, and
stamp your personality on it.''

When describing Durkin, others -- current and former players, a former coach and
a former colleague, even his mother -- sound as if they are talking about the
famously driven man who hired him at Michigan, Jim Harbaugh. From 2007 through
2009, Durkin was Harbaugh's special teams coordinator at Stanford.

''He approaches the game the same way Jim does -- 'With Enthusiasm Unknown to
Mankind,' '' Ron Lynn, Stanford's director of player development, said, quoting
one of Harbaugh's Twitter posts. ''That's the way every day D. J. would come to
work and Jim would come to work.''

''He's a type-A personality,'' said Nevada Coach Brian Polian, who has gotten to
know Durkin throughout the years. ''Very, very passionate about ball. Very
enthusiastic as a coach.''

Michigan defensive end Chris Wormley, a senior, said Durkin had ''that certain
kind of edge.''

And Marianne Durkin, who will travel with her husband, Dan, from D. J. Durkin's
hometown in northeastern Ohio to see Saturday's game, said of her son, ''He
throws himself into it, and he does a very thorough job.''

One thing that singles out Durkin has been his ability -- sweetened by good luck
-- to work under well-regarded mentors.

After his final season as a player, Durkin was a Bowling Green graduate
assistant under a first-time head coach named Urban Meyer. When Meyer, now the
coach at top-ranked Ohio State, left for Utah, he helped land Durkin a graduate
assistant position at Notre Dame.

After a second stint at Bowling Green, Durkin spent three years as defensive
ends coach and special teams coordinator at Stanford under Harbaugh. Then Meyer
lured him to Florida, where Durkin coached for five seasons under Meyer and,
later, his successor Will Muschamp and the defensive coordinator Dan Quinn, who
left to run the Seattle Seahawks' Super Bowl-winning defense and is now head
coach of the Atlanta Falcons.

Chuck Heater, Marshall's defensive coordinator, said Meyer had brought in Durkin
-- then in his early 30s -- to run the Gators' special teams.

''He basically gave it all to D. J.,'' said Heater, who was one of Meyer's
defensive coordinators. Durkin, Heater added, ''enhanced it,'' putting in the
face time necessary to motivate special-teams players.

Perhaps Meyer had gotten wind of the special-teams meetings Durkin ran at
Stanford.

''He was so good that that was the last thing that would happen on the day of
the game before we got on the bus,'' Lynn said.

At Stanford and especially at Florida, Durkin also polished a reputation as a
top-notch recruiter; Rivals.com named him 2012's recruiter of the year. He lured
Alex Anzalone to Florida after the coveted linebacker had committed to (and
decommitted from) both Ohio State and Notre Dame, and also landed the star
linebacker Matt Rolin even after he had undergone knee surgery at the hands of
the orthopedist for South Carolina, to which he had committed.

This year, Durkin jumped at the chance to work for Harbaugh again. He cited
Harbaugh's desire not to ''do things just because that's the way it's done,''
pointing to Harbaugh's decision to spend the N.C.A.A.-allotted four hours a day
of spring practice entirely on the field.

''I enjoy his intensity, his competitiveness -- he's a very, very competitive
guy,'' Durkin said. ''Obviously, I am as well.''

In addition to Harbaugh, Durkin said he relished reuniting with Greg Mattison,
under whom he had coached at Notre Dame.

Mattison stayed at Michigan after the previous coach, Brady Hoke, was fired,
effectively accepting a demotion from coordinator to defensive line coach.
Despite a 5-7 record last season under Hoke, the Wolverines had an excellent
defense. It helped that Harbaugh was the third Harbaugh whom Mattison has
coached for, having been John Harbaugh's defensive coordinator with the
Baltimore Ravens and Jack Harbaugh's defensive coordinator at Western Michigan
in the mid-1980s. (Mattison, too, has also coached under Meyer.)

''It takes a special person to do what he did,'' Durkin said of Mattison. As the
new coordinator, he said, it was also extremely helpful to have someone who knew
all the players.

Part of Durkin's skill as a recruiter no doubt derives from his relative youth.
But even youthful coaches get older. Durkin is married and has a 5-year-old
daughter and a 2-year-old son. Though he still pledges allegiance to the team
whose uniform he used to put on every day after elementary school, the Cleveland
Browns, today he acts less like another one of the youngsters and more like a
grown-up.

Justin Tuck, the former Giants defensive end now with the Oakland Raiders,
played under Durkin at Notre Dame. He recalled the Durkin of more than a decade
ago as a coach who, though capable, was not yet completely self-assured. When
Durkin criticized players, it was not with the intensity to which his current
players testify, but rather, according to Tuck, with humor, on the order of
comments such as, ''When I was a player, I used to do stupid things like that.''

Marianne Durkin recalled this phase of D. J.'s career similarly. ''I think the
one thing that surprised him when he started coaching was the importance of the
relationship and the influence you have on the players,'' she said. ''When
you're a player, you don't realize the influence you can have on them.''

She added, ''I think that's been a pleasant surprise.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/ncaafootball/to-craft-michigans-miserly
-defense-a-coordinator-gives-all.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Wolverines' defensive coordinator, D. J. Durkin, left, with
Coach Jim Harbaugh. Durkin's drive mirrors that of his boss. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY
DING/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS
(90%); COACHES & TRAINERS (78%); HALLOWEEN (73%); ATHLETES (73%); AMERICAN
FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sports Briefing | Hockey; Devils Lose in Shootout

BYLINE: By PAT PICKENS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SHARKS 2, DEVILS 1 (SHOOTOUT); Pg. 4

LENGTH: 903 words


NEWARK --  Pete DeBoer has a knack for turning around teams in his first season
as coach.

In his debut as an N.H.L. head coach in 2008, DeBoer guided the Florida Panthers
to a 93-point regular season -- their third best -- but fell 2 points shy of a
playoff spot.

In his first season in New Jersey in 2011, the Devils registered a 102-point
campaign and enjoyed an improbable run through the Eastern Conference playoffs
that ended two wins short of winning the Stanley Cup. DeBoer led the Devils to
102 regular-season wins -- the second most in franchise history (Jacques Lemaire
had 276) -- before being fired on Dec. 26, 2014.

DeBoer appears to be at it again this season for the 4-0 San Jose Sharks, who
failed to make the playoffs last season.

''I loved every minute of it,'' DeBoer said of his three-plus years in New
Jersey before Friday's return to Newark. ''I loved working for Lou,'' he added,
referring to the former Devils president and general manager Lou Lamoriello.
''My family loved living in the area -- still does. No regrets. When I look back
at the experience here, I have nothing but great memories and a lot of great
friends.''

Still, he made the playoffs once, in 2011-12, and was criticized for his
inability to integrate young players with veterans on the ice.

''We all really enjoyed him as a coach,'' Devils goalie Cory Schneider said.
''We had a good relationship. We just didn't get the job done for him last
year.''

John Hynes was hired to replace DeBoer this season. The Devils have lost their
first four games for the first time since 2001-2 and have yet to hold a lead.
They have been outscored by 12-6, including Friday night's 2-1 shootout loss,
but Hynes called the Devils' performance ''a good statement for our group.''

The Sharks claimed their first shootout win of the season.

DeBoer's Devils also started strong in shootouts, winning an N.H.L.-best 12 of
16 during the 2011-12 season. But after his first season, the Devils won only
four of 25 shootouts during the remainder of DeBoer's tenure.

''The irony of us winning a shootout in this building isn't lost on me,'' DeBoer
said after the game.

DeBoer's family still lives in New Jersey, and he said he still considered New
Jersey his home. With four days between the Sharks' last game in Washington and
Friday's in Newark, DeBoer was home with his wife and two children. His older
son, Jack, is a hockey player at Salisbury School in Connecticut and has
committed to Boston University for next fall.

DeBoer replaced Todd McLellan after the Sharks missed the postseason for the
first time since 2002-3 -- and for just the fourth time in the past 21 seasons.
McLellan recorded 311 wins in seven seasons but never reached the Stanley Cup
finals. McLellan stripped Joe Thornton of his longtime captaincy after a
disappointing end to the 2013-14 season, and the decision turned out to be the
start McLellan's downfall last year.

''Todd's a heck of a coach, and this is a well-coached group,'' DeBoer said.
''Seven years with one voice, sometimes, is a lot, too. Three, four years is a
lot with some groups in the N.H.L.''

The Sharks are 4-0 for the third time in their past four seasons, but they have
been invigorated by their new bench boss.

''We've got a new dressing room, new coaches, and with that, it's like school,''
Sharks defenseman Brent Burns said. ''There's a new energy there, and you want
to do well.''

DeBoer's tenacious style, in which he stresses shot suppression and an
aggressive forecheck, have been highly successful and were on display again
Friday. Joel Ward won a puck battle deep in the Devils' zone and found Patrick
Marleau in front of the net for the game's first goal just 2 minutes 1 second
in.

''We wanted to get the first goal,'' DeBoer said. ''We knew they'd had some
trouble, hadn't played with a lead, and we wanted to try to stick them in a hole
early, and we did.''

Also part of that new energy is the first-time starting goaltender Martin Jones.
Jones, who was acquired in a draft-day deal with the Bruins after Boston had
traded forward Milan Lucic to Los Angeles, allowed a goal on the first shot he
faced this season, then stopped 104 straight shots before Adam Henrique's
third-period power-play goal.

''He's been so good for us,'' Burns said. ''We've been playing well in front of
him, but when we do make mistakes, he's bailed us out.''

Jones also set the Sharks' franchise record for consecutive scoreless minutes
(234:39) before Henrique's late goal, on a deflection of Damon Severson's point
shot, spoiled his bid for a third straight shutout. Jones said he had tracked
the puck off Henrique's deflection but had put his blocker up too late to stop
it.

DeBoer is leaning on Jones as he did last season with Schneider, who also was a
first-year starter. DeBoer started Schneider in goal during the Devils' first 20
games last season, and he put Jones in for his fourth straight start on Friday.
But DeBoer added that he would most likely start the backup Alex Stalock either
Saturday in Brooklyn against the Islanders or on Monday against the Rangers.

Jones is happy with the early success but admitted it was too early to be overly
confident.

''It's only four games,'' Jones said. ''A big part of being a starting
goaltender is doing it over the course of 82 games.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/hockey/pete-deboers-knack-for-fast-turn
arounds-aids-sharks.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); COACHES & TRAINERS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%);
SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); WINTER SPORTS
(89%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (73%); DISMISSALS (69%);
ATHLETES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (94%); FLORIDA PANTHERS (84%); SAN JOSE SHARKS
(56%)

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

A Jury, Not the S.E.C.

BYLINE: By SUJA A. THOMAS and MARK CUBAN.

Suja A. Thomas is a professor at the University of Illinois College of Law and
author of ''The Missing American Jury: Restoring Its Fundamental Constitutional
Role'' (to be published by Cambridge University Press). Mark Cuban is the owner
of the Dallas Mavericks, Landmark Theatres and Magnolia Pictures, and is
chairman of AXS TV. He won his Securities and Exchange Commission case before a
jury two years ago.

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Dealbook; ANOTHER VIEW; Pg.

LENGTH: 712 words



Who should decide a defendant's fate -- a jury of everyday people or a judge
employed by the Securities and Exchange Commission?

This is one of the questions that federal courts are considering in several
cases brought by plaintiffs. They are challenging the agency's authority to both
accuse them of securities law violations and decide whether they are liable,
subjecting them to the possibility of paying high civil penalties to the
government.

After losing several cases before juries, the S.E.C. went to a place where it
generally cannot lose: itself. When it accuses a person of a securities
violation, the S.E.C. has often brought the case in an administrative hearing
where one of its own judges decides the case, not a jury. Rarely does the agency
lose such cases before its judges, and when it has lost, the loss is not
well-received. At least one judge has reported being criticized for finding too
often in favor of defendants. That same judge ultimately resigned.

In one case, Charles Hill, a self-employed real estate developer, was accused by
the S.E.C. of buying stock on the basis of inside information about a merger.
This year, the S.E.C. brought the case before a judge in the agency, pursuant to
the Dodd-Frank Act, instead of a federal court where a jury could hear the case.
Among other things, if the case continues to go forward before the agency, its
judge could order Mr. Hill to pay significant civil penalties to the government.

Mr. Hill and others like him have challenged the government's authority.

Many of the challenges, such as one brought by the private equity financier Lynn
Tilton, focus on matters that do not go to the heart of the issue. The real
issue is an individual's right to a jury trial. When the jury trial right was
established in the late 18th century, if a civil penalty was sought, a jury
decided that case. The division of authority among governmental bodies was
clear. Juries decided money issues and judges decided other questions such as
whether to order a person to stop some action. Even as new causes of action were
created, juries continued to decide issues involving money, including civil
penalties.

So why does the government think agency judges should decide these cases instead
of juries? The government has emphasized that, under Supreme Court authority,
Congress can move matters involving ''public rights'' to administrative agency
judges. The government argues that the cases at hand involve such public rights.

Because of the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on the public, the government
asserts that the securities issues in these cases are the exact public rights
questions that S.E.C. judges should decide.

Despite the persistence of this public rights doctrine, there is no
constitutional authority for it. First, Article I does not give Congress any
authority to determine who decides civil cases. Second, the Seventh Amendment
itself tells us who should decide these cases. Under it, juries decide money
issues and federal judges decide other matters.

Some argue that administrative law judges are sufficiently independent. The high
victory rates of the S.E.C. in comparison to cases before juries, as well as the
reported criticism of a recalcitrant judge, do not support such independence.

Moreover, changes recently proposed by the S.E.C. -- such as more time for
defendants to prepare for the hearing and permitting defendants to take
depositions before the hearing -- do not change the fact that the agency remains
the accuser and the decision-maker.

While it is understandable that the government wants its cases decided by its
judges because it will win, the Constitution granted people protections from the
government. Specifically, the jury provided such protection. Under the Seventh
Amendment, if the government sued a person, a jury was to decide if he was
liable and required to pay money to the government.

The federal courts should recognize the constitutional authority granted to
juries to decide civil cases as well as the related limitations on the
legislature and the executive to determine who decides. Importantly, a defendant
accused of wrongdoing by the government and facing significant monetary
penalties should have the option of a jury deciding his case.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/dealbook/a-jury-not-the-sec.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE
AGENCIES (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); LAW COURTS &
TRIBUNALS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); BANKING &
FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US DODD FRANK ACT (78%); JUDGES (78%); VERDICTS (78%);
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (77%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW
(77%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); AGENCY
ADJUDICATION (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Why Great Leaders See More and Exclude Less

BYLINE: By TONY SCHWARTZ.

Tony Schwartz is the chief executive of The Energy Project and the author, most
recently, of ''The Way We're Working Isn't Working.'' Twitter: @tonyschwartz

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LIFE@WORK; Pg.

LENGTH: 924 words


The central dilemma of a modern leader is to balance apparently conflicting
virtues and beliefs without choosing sides between them.

Decisiveness, for example, is widely and rightly perceived as crucial to
effective leadership. It's the opposite of uncertainty and insecurity, which are
paralyzing. But decisiveness overused eventually congeals into certainty. The
balancing opposite is openness.

This week, the news program ''60 Minutes'' ran a segment on a Louisiana
prosecutor named Marty Stroud. In his very first death row case, Mr. Stroud
overlooked conflicting evidence and won the murder conviction of a black man
named Glenn Ford with an all-white jury. For the next 30 years, Mr. Ford was
kept in solitary confinement at the notorious Angola prison in southern
Louisiana.

In 2014, the real murderer confessed, and Mr. Ford's conviction was overturned.
Reflecting back on his zeal to convict, Mr. Stroud was deeply repentant.

''I was arrogant, narcissistic, and caught up in the culture of winning,'' he
told ''60 Minutes.''

A prosecutor requires decisiveness to do his job well. What Mr. Stroud
apparently lacked was an equal degree of open-mindedness, until it was much too
late. The capacity to own his failure may now be a saving grace in Mr. Stroud's
life, but it cost Mr. Ford his. He died of cancer four months after his release
from prison.

Consider, for a moment, these seemingly paradoxical qualities:

â- Results-focused/Reflectiveness

â- Honesty/Compassion

â- Tough-mindedness/Gentleness

â- Confidence/Humility

â- Rationality/Intuition

â- Intelligence/Curiosity

â- Passion/Composure

â- Practicality/Vision

Is there any doubt that for each set of pairs above, most of us tend to favor
one more than the other? Or that as a culture -- especially in business and
especially for those in leadership roles -- we value the constellation of
virtues on the left far more than we do those on the right?

We crave certainty because it makes us feel more safe. But in an increasingly
complex and pluralistic world, there aren't any simple solutions. Great leaders
are defined today not by having the right answers but by the willingness to
embrace and grapple with conflicting and sometimes paradoxical ''truths.''

Nearly all of us perceive honesty as a virtue. It gives us a solid ground to
stand on, and therefore makes us more trusting and secure. Or does it? Honesty
overused -- treated as a singular virtue by itself -- can actually lead to
cruelty.

A leader may deliver harsh feedback, in a spirit of honesty, to get an employee
to change a behavior. But often that leads to just the opposite. The recipient
feels attacked and responds with defensiveness and resentment, too threatened to
take in the feedback, even if it is accurate. Communicating feedback effectively
requires holding each of these seemingly opposite poles -- honesty and
compassion -- and continuously moving between them as circumstances demand.

By contrast, I consulted not long ago for a financial services company whose
leaders prided themselves on an unusually collegial culture -- rare for that
industry. Employees treated one another with respect, care and great civility.
The problem was that all decisions were made by consensus and no one felt
comfortable delivering critical feedback to anyone. Decision-making was
torturous, and younger employees felt insecure in the absence of honest
feedback.

A great leader continually challenges her people to push beyond their current
comfort zones. But pushing people too relentlessly eventually prompts fear and
fatigue, both of which undermine great performance. In this case, the balancing
opposite is nurturing and caring for those one leads.

''There is always an optimal value,'' said the anthropologist Gregory Bateson,
'' beyond which anything is toxic, no matter what: oxygen, sleep, psychotherapy,
philosophy.''

Take winning, for example, long revered as a cardinal American virtue. Winning
may be the only viable outcome for animals in the jungle, where life is a zero
sum game. Today the vast majority of competitions between human beings are not
life or death.

Winning is no longer a singular virtue in an increasingly interdependent world,
not least because it casts everyone else as losers. As a value or a goal by
itself, winning can be literally dehumanizing, an outcome both Marty Stroud and
Glenn Ford experienced. The ultimate win is a win-win.

I thought of all this while watching the movie ''Steve Jobs'' last weekend.
There is little doubt that Mr. Jobs personified qualities such as confidence,
tough-mindedness, passion, brutal honesty and a fierce commitment to winning.
But both the movie and the Walter Isaacson biography from which it was adapted
make it equally clear that Mr. Jobs fell far short in the balancing opposites:
humility, gentleness, composure, empathy, and ultimately, even humanity.

A rare talent, Mr. Jobs was hardly rare in his limitations. How many of our
current presidential candidates, for example, evince a balance of qualities such
as confidence and humility, tough-mindedness and gentleness, or honesty and
compassion?

Greatness as a leader, and beyond that as a human being, requires the vision to
see more and exclude less. It means looking inside ourselves more deeply as well
as outside ourselves, beyond self-interest and immediate gratification. It means
not just resisting the deep impulse to choose up sides to avoid uncertainty, but
also challenging our blind spots and wrestling with our infinite capacity for
self-deception.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/dealbook/why-great-leaders-see-more-a
nd-exclude-less.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); CAPITAL CRIMES (76%); MURDER (76%); JURY
TRIALS (76%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (56%)

COMPANY: STROUD'S (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (55%)

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Kweku Adoboli, Ex-UBS Trader, Is Blocked From Financial Industry

BYLINE: By CHAD BRAY

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 450 words


LONDON -- British regulators said on Friday that Kweku M. Adoboli, a former UBS
trader found guilty nearly three years ago of fraud related to a $2.3 billion
trading loss at the bank, had been barred from the financial industry.

Mr. Adoboli, 35, was convicted in November 2012 of two charges that he abused
his position as a trader at UBS from 2008 to 2011. He was sentenced to seven
years in prison.

Released from prison this year, he is fighting efforts by the British government
to deport him. Mr. Adoboli was born in Ghana, but he left the West African
nation as a child and has lived in Britain for most of his life.

On Friday, the Financial Conduct Authority said Mr. Adoboli had been barred from
''performing any function in relation to any regulated financial activity.''

''Mr. Adoboli is not a fit and proper person to perform any functions, as his
conduct demonstrates a serious lack of honesty, integrity and reputation,'' the
regulator said in a final notice in his case on Friday.

''In reaching its decision, the F.C.A. has considered all the relevant
circumstances and the severity of the risk posed by Mr. Adoboli to consumers and
financial institutions, and to confidence in the market generally,'' the
regulator added in a news release.

Mr. Adoboli could not be located for comment on Friday.

He joined UBS as a trainee shortly after graduating from the University of
Nottingham in England in 2003 and rose through the ranks at the Swiss bank.

Prosecutors accused Mr. Adoboli of falsifying some trades and of setting up
separate accounts to hide profits and losses from his unauthorized trades.

The trades initially earned money for the bank and its clients, but losses began
to pile up in 2011, when Mr. Adoboli made a wrong bet on the direction of the
financial markets, prosecutors said. UBS ultimately reported a $2.3 billion loss
related to the trading.

At trial, his lawyer argued that Mr. Adoboli was a scapegoat for a
multibillion-dollar loss at UBS and that the bank was aware of and condoned his
trading activities as long as they were profitable.

In 2012, UBS paid a fine of 29.7 million pounds, or about $46 million, for
failures in its systems and controls that allowed the unauthorized trading.

In 2014, John Christopher Hughes, a former senior trader at UBS, was barred from
the financial industry for failing to report an account used with Mr. Adoboli's
trading scheme to manipulate the daily profits and losses on the bank's global
synthetic equities desk, according to the Financial Conduct Authority.

Mr. Adoboli was junior to Mr. Hughes on the desk, the regulator said. Mr. Hughes
was fired by UBS in 2012, according to the Financial Conduct Authority.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/dealbook/kweku-adoboliex-ubs-trader-i
s-blocked-from-financial-industry.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%);
VERDICTS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); JAIL
SENTENCING (78%); SENTENCING (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CORRECTIONS (77%);
SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); SYNTHETIC SECURITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL CONDUCT AUTHORITY (56%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); GHANA (79%); ENGLAND (74%); WESTERN AFRICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Bleecker Street Salesman Dealing in Knives, Garrotes and Blowguns

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON.

Twitter: @mwilsonnyt

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CRIME SCENE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 752 words


Officers patrolling the busy Bleecker Street corridor of bars between Macdougal
Street and LaGuardia Place saw him outside Wicked Willy's, talking to another
man. He was hard to miss, openly demonstrating a device in his hand.

An officer approached him and took it. ''When I pressed the trigger,'' the
officer wrote in a criminal complaint that day, Sept. 24, ''I observed a strong
blue spark between the electrodes of the weapon, indicating a high-voltage
electrical current.''

It was a stun gun, and the man carrying it, Larkland Tabois, 23, of Rosedale,
Queens, appeared to be trying to sell it on the street. Officers arrested Mr.
Tabois and searched him and his backpack.

They discovered a stunning array of exotic and eclectic weaponry, the origins of
which span continents and centuries and movie house tropes. Mr. Tabois appeared
to be a cross between a lethal traveling salesman and an overachieving ninja, a
figure, either way, who was at odds with the beer-pong scene on that stretch of
Bleecker.

First, the stun gun. Possessing one is illegal in New York City. Mr. Tabois had
six more in his backpack, the police said.

He wore a Velcro pad strapped to his left arm that warranted further
examination. The pad contained a knife that was more than four inches long, and
the backpack held another, the complaint stated. There was a gravity knife, its
blade released ''through the application of centrifugal force'' before locking
in place, the officer wrote in the complaint.

There were two belt knives and two neck knives, both named for where they are
worn, the police said. There was a blowgun, a weapon often associated with
big-screen pygmies and assassins, but as unlikely on the streets of New York as
a garrote.

More: ''I took two grappling hooks and three lock pick sets from the defendant's
backpack,'' the officer wrote.

More: ''I took three sets of brass knuckles, one knuckle knife, seven
retractable batons, one butterfly knife.''

''I took 10 loose firecrackers,'' the officer wrote. ''I took one small bag of
crack/cocaine.''

And one more thing: ''A garrote.''

Mr. Tabois was charged with possession of weapons, burglar tools, a controlled
substance, stun guns and fireworks. His arrest was reported in police blotters
in The Villager and The New York Post. He has since been released on bail.

He listed his address as a home in Queens where no one answered the door on
Thursday. He described himself on the LinkedIn website as a self-employed
personal trainer.

Mr. Tabois has a history of arrests, and was twice charged with carrying a
gravity knife, the police said. In Nassau County, he has an open case stemming
from his behavior in court in April on a traffic matter. Mr. Tabois insulted the
judge and raised his middle finger, even approaching the bench before officers
stopped him, according to a criminal complaint. Mr. Tabois resisted, knocking
himself and three officers into the courtroom seats before he was subdued.

In the Greenwich Village precinct near Bleecker Street, Mr. Tabois told the
police he got the weapons from a dealer in Pennsylvania and had them shipped to
his home, the police said. He said he intended to sell them on the street.
Websites offering the weapons abound.

The contents of his backpack were full of surprises for most civilians, so H.
Clay Aalders, managing editor of TheTruthAboutKnives.com, was asked by this
reporter to characterize the collection.

''Wow, that's a menagerie,'' he said. ''Let's see how many banned things we can
bring into the city.''

The weapons did not necessarily mean Mr. Tabois was a dangerous person, Mr.
Aalders said. In fact, they suggested he was something else altogether.

''A mall ninja,'' he said, a label for someone who seeks out exotic blades and
throwing stars and that sort of thing.

But Mr. Aalders also noted how many of those same knives he himself carries on a
regular basis in Knoxville, Tenn., where he is no mall ninja but an avid
fisherman. ''The neck knife,'' he said. ''That's extremely common for a backup
knife.''

He said gravity knives and butterfly knives are often prohibited by decades-old
bans.

''Too many politicians watched 'West Side Story' and James Dean movies,'' Mr.
Aalders said. ''Most people are killed by kitchen knives.''

However, one weapon caught his attention as both absurd and full of potential.

''I can think of nothing more fun than going to a Dumpster in New York City and
shooting rats,'' he said, ''with a blowgun.''

Email: crimescene@nytimes.com




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/nyregion/a-bleecker-street-salesman-dealing-in
-knives-garrotes-and-blowguns.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The police said that an array of weapons was found on Larkland
Tabois, including stun guns, brass knuckles, knives, batons and grappling hooks.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW YORK POLICE DEPARTMENT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (76%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (76%); BAIL
(71%); COCAINE (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 69 words


An article on Page 36 this weekend about Raymond Chow, a defendant in a San
Francisco racketeering trial, states that prosecutors were considering
additional charges against him for the murders of two reputed gang members.
After the article had gone to press, prosecutors charged Chow on Friday with
murder and conspiracy to commit murder. Chow has been rearraigned, and has
pleaded not guilty to both new charges.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSPIRACY (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 38 words


A picture caption on Friday with a theater review of ''Travels With My Aunt,''
at the Clurman Theater in Manhattan, misidentified the actor shown with Thomas
Jay Ryan. He is Jay Russell -- not Daniel Jenkins, another cast member.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (88%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 35 words


An art review on Friday about ''Greater New York,'' at MoMA P. S. 1 in Long
Island City, Queens, misidentified the location of two dozen sculptures in a
wide-open space. They are on the second floor, not the third.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 44 words


Because of an editing error, an art review on Friday about ''Jim Shaw: The End
Is Here,'' at the New Museum in Manhattan, misidentified the nationality of the
collector who lent the ''Thrift Store Paintings'' to the exhibition. The
collector is Belgian, not German.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PAINTING (88%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 91 words


An article in some editions on Friday about the Mets' division series victory
over the Los Angeles Dodgers described incorrectly a part of Dodgers pitcher
Zack Greinke's performance. Five of the first six outs he recorded were by
strikeout; he did not strike out five of the first six batters he faced. The
article also misstated the way the Mets' previous winner-take-all game, Game 7
of the 2006 National League Championship Series, ended. Carlos Beltran struck
out looking -- not swinging -- against St. Louis Cardinals pitcher Adam
Wainwright.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (93%); NEW YORK METS (91%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS
(54%)

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%)

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 71 words


An article on Friday about catcher Russell Martin's bizarre throwing error in
the decisive game of the Toronto Blue Jays' playoff series with the Texas
Rangers described incorrectly another infamous baseball mistake: the baserunning
blunder in 1908 by Fred Merkle that helped cost the New York Giants a pennant.
That play occurred in a regular-season game; it was not ''one of the most
infamous gaffes in postseason history.''



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION
(88%)

ORGANIZATION: TORONTO BLUE JAYS (84%); TEXAS RANGERS (83%); NEW YORK GIANTS
(57%)

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (87%); TEXAS, USA (87%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 43 words


The Crime Scene column last Saturday, about a robbery of a currency exchange
station under the Plaza Hotel, misstated, in some editions, the day of the crime
in one instance. As the column correctly noted elsewhere, it was Monday, Oct. 5
-- not Tuesday, Oct. 6.



URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (87%); CURRENCIES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Where Did Our Working Women Go?

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 820 words


Japan now has a higher proportion of working women than we do. I'm trying to get
my head around this fact.

''Everyone else is continuing to rise and we've declined, and now we're
basically tied with Japan. And Japan's on the upswing and we're still going
down,'' said Jason Furman, chairman of President Obama's Council of Economic
Advisers. He was pointing to a chart that shows women in the labor force in 24
countries. These are the usual suspects when we're comparing ourselves to other
societies -- Australia, Belgium, Canada, etc.

''When it came to women in the workplace, the United States used to be seventh.
''And now we're 20th,'' said Furman in a phone interview. You'll be happy to
know that while Ireland also seems to be closing in on us, it'll be a hell of a
long time before we fall below Turkey.

Stick with me for a minute on this. We spend half of our national debate time
talking about how economically fragile Americans feel. Why do you think that is?
Well, there's the whopping disproportion of national wealth flowing into the
pockets of the already-wealthy. And the plummeting power of labor unions.

But women falling out of the work force is also a huge deal. It reduces family
standards of living and puts a crimp in the economy.

And why do you think this is happening? One of the reasons is clearly,
positively, absolutely the cost of child care.

It's incredible that we've built a society that relies on women in the labor
force yet makes no discernible effort to deal with this problem. The Economic
Policy Institute, a liberal think tank, recently divided the country into 618
''family budget areas'' and determined that in more than 500 of them, the cost
of child care for a family with a 4-year-old and an 8-year old would exceed
housing costs. Also, if you're a working single mother with those same two
children in, say, Buffalo, child care probably eats up a third of your income.

And infant care is impossible. In most states infant care is more expensive than
college tuition.

We generally -- and rightly -- talk about early childhood education as something
that's critical because it increases kids' chances of success in school. But as
Carmel Martin of the Center for American Progress points out, ''there's also
evidence of a positive effect on the economy over all.''

I am going to take a huge leap of faith and say that Japan is not trying to
bring its mothers into the work force because of its historic commitment to
feminism. (Last year, when a member of the Tokyo Metropolitan Assembly made a
speech calling for more services for women, she was taunted with cries of ''Get
married!'' and ''Can't you even bear a child?'')

But the prime minister, Shinzo Abe, is convinced that encouraging working women
will stimulate the economy. Now Japan, where 64 percent of working-age women are
employed, compared to 63 percent in the United States, is in the process of
creating 400,000 new prekindergarten spaces.

We will now stop for a moment and recall that in 1971, Congress passed a
bipartisan bill that would have made quality preschool education available to
every family in the United States that wanted it, with tuition based on the
family's ability to pay. Also after-school programs for older children.
Forty-four years ago! Richard Nixon vetoed it, muttering something about
''communal approaches to child rearing.''

There's also paid family leave. Japan guarantees that mothers get 58 weeks of
maternity leave, about half of it paid. In this week's Democratic debate, Bernie
Sanders said he was embarrassed that the United States was the only ''country on
earth'' that did not guarantee workers paid maternity leave. This was
inaccurate, since Sanders completely overlooked the situation in Papua New
Guinea.

Our current government policy requires that employers give new mothers 12 weeks
of unpaid leave. This was based on a bill passed early in the Clinton
administration. I remember well the combination of joy (parental leave!) and
despair (three months with no pay?).

During the debate Hillary Clinton laced into Carly Fiorina's argument that
government shouldn't ''dictate to the private sector'' about family leave.
''They don't mind having big government to interfere with a woman's right to
choose and to try to take down Planned Parenthood. They're fine with big
government when it comes to that. I'm sick of it,'' Clinton said. It was really
one of her better moments.

You may be stunned to hear that while the Republicans talk endlessly about
ginning up the American economy, the idea of helping working mothers stay in the
labor force does not come up all that often. Although Ben Carson has described
preschool as ''indoctrination.''

From Richard Nixon to Ben Carson, and wow, nothing's changed.

I invite you to join me on Facebook.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up
for the Opinion Today newsletter.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/opinion/what-happened-to-working-women.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN WORKERS (92%); WOMEN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR
FORCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CHILDREN (86%); CHILD CARE (86%); PERSONAL
FINANCE (85%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); BUDGETS (76%);
LIVING STANDARDS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S
RIGHTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%);
TUITION FEES (69%); POLITICAL DEBATES (66%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (60%);
SINGLE PARENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%);
BELGIUM (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Customer Service in the Age of Apocalypse

BYLINE: By LAURA COLLINS-HUGHES

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 422 words


Headlamps on, they scramble down into the darkness one by one. Alighting at the
top of the stairs, each unfurls a role of plastic over the steps, lies down and
slides to the bottom. Most choose to belly-surf.

It's not the easiest way to report for work, but the five employees of Financial
Bank are a determined bunch. Here they are to do their morning warm-up exercises
before filling the day with -- well, probably not much of consequence, given
that the apocalypse has happened.

This intriguing but inchoate new work by Animals Performance Group riffs on a
Chase Bank ad campaign with its title, ''Chase: What Matters Most?,'' and the
workers' shirts are emblazoned with Chase logos. Late in the show, elsewhere on
the planet, a group of monks chants new-agey HSBC slogans like ''An open mind is
the best way to look at the world.''

It's a little hard to tell, but banking and mumbo-jumbo marketing don't appear
to be the actual targets of this disjointed piece, presented at Dixon Place. The
chief concern seems to be how much of life we waste at meaningless toil in a
world that surely holds more wondrous options, even after whatever doomsday this
crew has suffered. Is there really any point to keeping their dim office (the
set is by Blake Palmer), with its scavenged furnishings, customer-ready?

''I just sweep and sweep and sweep and sweep again and again, endlessly running
out the clock until we don't get enough food and we all die,'' says an underling
named Jase (Nikki Calonge), who speaks in a monotone even when freaking out.

The deadpan-hilarious Ms. Calonge -- a director of Animals, along with Michael
De Angelis, a visual artist, and Mike Mikos, a writer and director -- is one of
the best things about ''Chase.''

Zoë Geltman is the other, for her delicious comic turns as a smart but daffy
Financial Bank employee named Jesse and as the monks' apparent leader, a smug,
air-quote-using guru type who says things like ''We seek to dissolve the
boundaries of our selves and attain that viewpoint that is no viewpoint, the
unseeable seeing of the centerless universe.''

The piece's various elements hang together better in the script than they do
onstage, partly because of two inscrutable segments that depend on movement and
shadows to tell significant parts of the story. In performance, ''Chase'' feels
unrealized and adrift, a dramatic universe that has yet to find its center.

''Chase: What Matters Most?'' continues through Oct. 31 at Dixon Place, Lower
East Side; 866-811-4111, dixonplace­.org.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/theater/review-chase-what-matters-most-banking
-after-the-apocalypse.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); MARKETING &
ADVERTISING (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (69%); WRITERS
(67%); VISUAL ARTISTS (62%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Games to Watch

BYLINE: By FRED BIERMAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 683 words


Saturday

7 Michigan State at 12 Michigan

3:30 p.m. Eastern, ESPN

Morale is sky high in Ann Arbor after three straight shutouts. The Wolverines
are giving up only 6.3 points a game (fewest in the Football Bowl Subdivision)
and have been steadily climbing the rankings under their new coach, Jim
Harbaugh. The offense has been taking care of the ball, special teams have come
up big, and the Wolverines are rolling. In East Lansing, the outlook is a little
shakier. The Spartans have had a rash of injuries (particularly on the offensive
line) and have struggled to put away inferior opponents like Purdue and Rutgers.
While they are underdogs in this one, Michigan State has owned this rivalry
lately, winning six of the last seven meetings. The Spartans' Connor Cook is the
quarterback with the most wins in the program's history (29-3), and he has a
knack for coming through when the spotlight is on. The matchup between Michigan
State receiver Aaron Burbridge and Michigan cornerback Jourdan Lewis is as good
as it gets.

10 Alabama at 9 Texas A&M

3:30 p.m., CBS

A lot has changed at Texas A&M since Alabama blew out the Aggies, 59-0, last
season. Texas A&M's Kyle Allen has taken over at quarterback and emerged as one
of the best passers in the Southeastern Conference. With a solid running game
and a host of fine receivers, there is little chance that the Aggies are going
to be blown out again. On the other side of the ball, Texas A&M has a new
defensive coordinator, and end Myles Garrett leads the conference with seven and
a half sacks. Alabama has bounced back well from its loss to Mississippi, but a
loss here would all but eliminate the Crimson Tide from contention in the SEC
West -- and from the national championship playoff. One player to watch: Alabama
kicker Adam Griffith is just 6 of 12 on field-goal attempts this season.

8 Florida at 6 Louisiana State

7 p.m., ESPN

This game has been overshadowed by the suspension of Florida quarterback Will
Grier for violating the N.C.A.A.'s policy on performance-enhancing drugs.
Florida was ascendant, but this changes the narrative. Treon Harris, who is not
without experience, will step in. L.S.U. has one of the best players in college
football in running back Leonard Fournette, who is the favorite to win the
Heisman Trophy. Quarterback Brandon Harris is coming off a solid game against
South Carolina, but the Gators will look to slow Fournette and force Harris to
beat them. Of course, slowing Fournette is something yet to be accomplished this
season. Still, this Gators defense is probably the best one that L.S.U. has seen
this season.

Penn State at 1 Ohio State

8 p.m., ABC

The Buckeyes might have figured out their two-quarterback system last week.
Cardale Jones marches Ohio State down the field, and J. T. Barrett takes it into
the end zone. This week, a solid Penn State defense, which leads the F.B.S. with
25 sacks, comes into this prime-time matchup.

17 Iowa at 20 Northwestern

Noon, ABC

Iowa has been one of the biggest surprises in college football. A win here, and
the Hawkeyes have a real shot to go undefeated. They do not play Ohio State,
Michigan State or Michigan this season, and after this game, they do not face a
ranked opponent. Northwestern is hoping to bounce back after a 38-0 drubbing at
Michigan last week.

13 Mississippi at Memphis

Noon, ABC/ESPN2 (Regional)

This a huge game for Memphis, which is 5-0 and has won 12 consecutive games
dating to last season. The fourth-year coach Justin Fuente is a rising star in
the coaching world.

Southern California

at 14 Notre Dame

7:30 p.m., NBC

First, the Trojans lost to Washington, a team they were favored to beat by more
than two touchdowns. Then, on Monday, Coach Steve Sarkisian was dismissed. Now
they play an Irish team that is fighting to work its way back into the playoff
conversation.

Arizona State at 4 Utah

10 p.m., ESPN

Unbeaten Utah forced five interceptions last week against Cal. This week, the
Utes get a tricky matchup against a Sun Devils team that needs a victory to stay
in the Pac-12 South race. FRED BIERMAN




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/ncaafootball/college-football-games-to-
watch-on-saturday.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY
SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%);
COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%);
TOURNAMENTS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHEASTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (54%)

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); LOUISIANA,
USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

With Fits and Starts, a Michigan State Player Finds His Niche

BYLINE: By ZACH SCHONBRUN; Marc Tracy contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 956 words


When Ted Gill arrived at Middletown High School North in New Jersey, he could
not find his prize recruit. He looked everywhere. Gill, who was the defensive
line coach at Michigan State at the time, was expecting Shilique Calhoun to be
the next elite pass-rusher to join the cornfed tankers in the trenches of the
Big Ten. Calhoun should have been easy to spot, and Gill finally found him,
warming up as a wide receiver.

Tall and slim, Calhoun reminded Gill of another prospect he saw while coaching
in North Carolina more than a decade earlier: Julius Peppers.

''Same type mold, same type athlete, same type ability,'' Gill said.

But Peppers weighed 280 pounds when he arrived at North Carolina in 1999; as a
high school senior, Calhoun had only about 215 pounds spread over his 6-foot-5
frame. In the first five games of his junior season, he played safety. So
versatile was his athleticism that, on a recruiting visit, his father, John,
pulled Gill aside and asked him what position he thought suited Calhoun best.

''He said, 'Coach, I think he's going to be something one day,' '' Gill said. ''
'I just don't know if it's going to be offense or defense.' ''

Five years later, Calhoun has indeed become something: one of the nation's top
pass rushers for No. 7 Michigan State, which visits No. 12 Michigan on Saturday
afternoon in one of the most anticipated matchups in their rivalry of more than
a century.

Calhoun will be lining up against a vulnerable Wolverines offensive line, and
N.F.L. scouts will be watching, but that is nothing new. Calhoun was projected
to be a first-round draft pick last year, before opting to return for his final
season. He cited a desire to improve his understanding of the position. He has
not been playing it for long.

When Calhoun arrived in East Lansing, Mich., the coaching staff jostled over
whether to use him on offense or defense. He wanted to play both. Coach Mark
Dantonio made the final determination, envisioning Calhoun as an archetypal
''flash'' end for his 4-3 system -- a third-down rusher who could also drop back
into zone coverage and defend the pass.

There was one problem: Calhoun was woefully skinny and did not yet know the
intricacies of the position, typically a recipe for disaster in the Big Ten. In
practices, he kept attempting to bust through the middle of the line, only to
wind up on his backside. Gill had to steer him outside.

That Calhoun was playing for a program like Michigan State was not entirely a
surprise. But he always figured it would be in basketball. As a boy, raised in
Lakewood, N.J., Calhoun followed in the footsteps of his cousin Qa'rraan
Calhoun, who wound up playing basketball for St. John's and the University of
Houston. Shilique Calhoun saw himself the same way. He never played anything
else. His football coach at Middletown North, Joe Trezza, took to staking out
his eighth grade basketball games to try to persuade him to go out for a second
sport.

''When I heard that he was coming up, I'd go down and watch him play basketball
and get in his ear, like, 'Why don't you come play?' '' Trezza said. ''He'd
smile and wouldn't say yes or no. It wasn't something he really was looking to
do.''

Trezza eventually convinced Calhoun to try football for a week. At 6-2, Calhoun
towered over every other freshman. But he knew next to nothing about how to play
the game.

''He was a blank canvas,'' Trezza said. ''We had to teach him everything. It was
like starting from scratch.''

The process took several years. Calhoun showed up for football every fall,
played a variety of positions -- wideout, tight end, safety and, eventually,
defensive end -- then returned to his regularly scheduled basketball career. He
barely touched weights. He was not a student of football. Not yet.

When a Big Ten coach on a recruiting visit asked him what other programs in the
conference had shown interest, Calhoun gave him a blank stare.

''I started laughing,'' Trezza said. ''He doesn't know Big Ten teams. He didn't
know anything about football.''

But football teams wanted to know about him. As a three-star prospect, according
to most scouting websites, Calhoun managed to fly under the radar nationally.
But colleges in the Northeast, including Boston College, Pittsburgh, Syracuse
and Rutgers, showed strong interest before Pat Narduzzi, then the Spartans'
defensive coordinator, spotted Calhoun as a high school junior.

''First thing that pops out at you is character,'' Narduzzi said. ''Just a
fun-loving kid that you love to coach.''

Dantonio said Calhoun had the height and ''size potential'' to make him worth
the risk.

''We've recruited a lot of guys here that are around 200 pounds -- that
power-forward type of player that eventually grows to 255 or 260,'' Dantonio
said. ''And that's the case with him.''

Working with Gill and Narduzzi, Calhoun learned his position, built his
confidence and, most important, gained weight (he is now listed at 260 pounds).
Last Saturday, he returned to New Jersey to play for the first time when
Michigan State traveled to Rutgers.

''Mainly I was trying to focus on the game,'' Calhoun said of the large
contingent of family and friends that turned out. ''I tried not to get too
caught up in my family's presence. I just tried to focus on winning the game and
saving the day.''

Indeed, Calhoun's astounding athleticism came to the rescue. After recording a
sack in the first quarter, he was quiet. But with Rutgers trailing by 7 points
and facing a third-and-10 from Michigan State's 40 with 21 seconds remaining,
Calhoun burned past right tackle J. J. Denman and chased quarterback Chris
Laviano out of the pocket, where he was sacked by Malik McDowell.

This time, Calhoun was easy to spot.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/16/sports/ncaafootball/michigan-state-shilique-ca
lhoun-michigan-college-football.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michigan State's Shilique Calhoun (89), who at one time wanted
to become a basketball player, is now among the top pass rushers in college
football. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL GOLDIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); COACHES & TRAINERS
(77%); ATHLETES (76%); BASKETBALL (72%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (94%)

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Middle East; Saudi Arabia: 5 Killed at Prayer Hall; New ISIS Branch Claims
Responsibility

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 208 words


A previously unknown Islamic State branch with links to Bahrain claimed
responsibility on Friday for a deadly shooting targeting Shiite worshipers in
the eastern Saudi city of Saihat. The Saudi Interior Ministry said in a
statement that five citizens were killed in the shooting, among them a woman,
and that nine people were wounded. The ministry did not identify the assailant
or offer details about motives. State television in Saudi Arabia reported that a
gunman wearing an explosives belt fired on the Shiites at a prayer hall as they
took part in evening worship and said the gunman was fatally shot before he
could detonate the explosives. In a statement posted online, a new ISIS branch
calling itself Bahrain Province claimed that it sent a gunman, named Shuja
al-Dosari, with a Kalashnikov rifle to kill the Shiites as they finished their
''polytheist rituals.'' It described them using the derogatory term ''rafida,''
meaning those who reject the Sunni path followed by Islamic State. If its claim
is confirmed, Bahrain Province would be the third branch to appear in the
Arabian Peninsula this year. Two other branches in Saudi Arabia have claimed
responsibility for attacks on Shiites and security forces that killed nearly 70
people.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/middleeast/saudi-arabia-5-killed-at-pray
er-hall-new-isis-branch-claims-responsibility.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); RELIGION (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS
(90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%)

COUNTRY: BAHRAIN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Africa; Nigeria: Bombings Kill 48 in Northeast

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 144 words


Four women set off explosives early Friday when challenged by soldiers as they
tried to enter a city in northeastern Nigeria, killing themselves and at least
18 people, officials and witnesses said. Maiduguri, a city that is the
birthplace of the Islamic extremist group Boko Haram, has been hit by a series
of bombings, exacting a terrible toll among civilians. The attack on Friday --
described by civilian defense fighters, the National Emergency Management Agency
and witnesses -- came just hours after two bombs exploded near a mosque in
Maiduguri, killing at least 30 people. Twenty people were wounded in that
attack, some critically, said the emergency agency's northeast Nigeria
coordinator, Muhammed Kanar. The military and troops from neighboring countries
have pushed the extremists from strongholds this year, but attacks by Boko Haram
have continued.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/africa/nigeria-bombings-kill-48-in-north
east.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (91%); BOKO HARAM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EYEWITNESSES
(90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (88%);
MUSLIMS & ISLAM (87%); RELIGION (71%)

COUNTRY: NIGERIA (94%); AFRICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Africa; Burkina Faso: New Charges in Coup

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 150 words


The general who took power after last month's coup in Burkina Faso has been
charged with crimes against humanity, the military prosecutor said Friday,
adding that 23 others had also been charged in the coup. The general, Gilbert
Diendéré, had already been charged with 10 other counts this month, including
attacking national security and murder. The prosecutor, Col. Sita Sangaré, did
not say when the new charge was added, but said General Diendéré would
ultimately stand trial before a military tribunal. According to the prosecutor,
the murder count can lead to a death sentence if the act has been done with
''cruelty.'' Colonel Sangaré said others charged included General Diendéré's
wife, Fatou Diendéré, a lawmaker from the former ruling party. During the coup,
14 people were killed and 250 injured, according to officials. The country's
transitional government was reinstalled on Sept. 23.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/world/africa/burkina-faso-new-charges-in-coup.
html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OFFENSES (90%); MURDER (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%);
MILITARY COURTS (90%); COUPS (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (88%); CRIMES AGAINST
HUMANITY (88%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%)

COUNTRY: BURKINA FASO (94%); AFRICA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Volkswagen Hires Anticorruption Manager

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 105 words


Volkswagen is hiring a top anticorruption manager from competitor Daimler as it
struggles to clean up a scandal over cheating on United States diesel emissions
tests. The company said on Friday that it would hire Christine
Hohmann-Dennhardt, 65, as an executive on its top management body in charge of
integrity and legal affairs effective Jan. 1. Before working for Daimler, Ms.
Hohmann-Dennhardt, a lawyer, was a judge on Germany's Federal Constitutional
Court and a justice minister in the state of Hesse in southwestern Germany.
American officials say Volkswagen programmed diesel engines to improperly evade
emissions testing.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/volkswagen-hires-anticorruption-manag
er.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (90%); DIESEL FUEL (90%); SCANDALS (90%);
CORRUPTION (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (87%); AIR QUALITY
REGULATION (85%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (83%)

STATE: HESSE, GERMANY (79%)

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

G.M. Recalls Trucks In New Ignition Switch Issue

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 125 words


General Motors has another ignition switch problem that can cause engines to
stall, but one was discovered before anyone got hurt. The automaker is recalling
3,300 big pickup trucks and S.U.V.s mainly in North America to fix the
ignitions, which can get stuck in the ''start'' position and slip into
''accessory'' if jostled. That causes engines to shut off and disables power
steering, power brakes and possibly the airbags. The problem is similar to one
in older G.M. small cars that cost the company billions of dollars and forced it
to admit it knew of the trouble but did not recall the cars for a decade. This
time, an employee who had the problem with his truck reported it through a
program that rewards workers for reporting safety issues.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/business/gm-recalls-trucks-in-new-ignition-swi
tch-issue.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (90%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (89%);
AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); PRODUCT RECALLS
(88%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%);
NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS &
ACCESSORIES (59%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (59%)

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

9 Bands, 3 Stages, One 5-Hour Marathon

BYLINE: By NATE CHINEN

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 919 words


The first BRIC JazzFest reached peak solidarity near midnight on Thursday,
during a relentlessly ecstatic performance by Kamasi Washington. Roaring through
his tenor saxophone against the rolling tumult of his band, Mr. Washington
imparted an air of mystic urgency to the BRIC House ballroom in Downtown
Brooklyn. The room was at capacity, and the crowd felt perfectly tuned in to his
message, calling out with congregational fervor.

This was the superheated closing set of a five-hour jazz marathon that formed
the festival's core attraction. Though BRIC JazzFest encompassed a few
stand-alone concerts earlier in the week, by the bassist Ron Carter and others,
it put most of its stock in the multistage, roving-audience model, with nine
bands in overlapping sets on Thursday, and nine more planned for Friday.

The bounty suited an event presented in association with the CMJ Music Marathon
(that word again), and by and large, it was a remarkably smooth success. Tickets
were $30 at the door, with a capacity of 700. (Thursday's marathon sold out.)

Yet the experience felt comfortable and manageable, rather than cramped or
harried. The sound was first-rate at each of three stages, and drifting among
them was easy. (The coziest, the Artist Studio, had been configured like a club,
and there was often a line to get in the door. Call that a problem, if you
like.) The music ran strictly on time. A lot of musicians stuck around after
their sets to hear their peers. None of this should be taken for granted.

But, in a sense, it might have been expected. The powers behind BRIC JazzFest
have experience with this sort of thing: BRIC is the nonprofit that presents
Celebrate Brooklyn! at Prospect Park every summer, among much else. And one of
the producers of the festival is Brice Rosenbloom, who founded the Winter
JazzFest, and has more or less turned the marathon ideal into a prevailing
standard for jazz festivals in New York.

The Winter JazzFest happens in mid-January in Greenwich Village -- its 2016
lineup has just been announced, as was often mentioned from the stage at BRIC
House -- but when it began in 2005, it was contained within the Knitting
Factory, then a three-story structure in TriBeCa. So the BRIC marathon felt like
a fond look back (with, it should be noted, brighter, cleaner facilities) as
well as a welcome new development.

Just how welcome? Given what's still a limited infrastructure for jazz in
Brooklyn, BRIC JazzFest could be an important force for good. Near the start of
his festival set, the bassist Ben Williams introduced his band, Sound Effect,
and said they'd played many times in Manhattan but never in Brooklyn, until now.

Their performance -- on a gallery floor that BRIC House calls the Stoop, with
stadium seating sloping down from the lobby -- was pleasing, crisp and relaxed.
Mr. Williams and his partners, especially the saxophonist Marcus Strickland and
the keyboardist David Bryant, made their cooled-out version of jazz-funk feel
inarguable, like a fait accompli.

But then, maybe that was the effect of the booking on Thursday, which suggested
a tyranny of style. I heard parts of every set, encountering an abundance of
contemporary genre-blending, an overspill of smart proficiency and very little
music that seems likely to stay with me.

At its least convincing -- as in the tart, mugging jazz-R&B of the Los Angeles
singer Dessy Di Lauro, who calls her style neo-ragtime -- the lineup felt
calculating, pitched to an imagined crossover base. Even some of the stronger
sets, like one by the trumpeter Takuya Kuroda, whose band sounded like the
Brecker Brothers with a new operating system, were hobbled by context: What
could be so special about one more group hunkering down with a groove?

So there could have been more variety, more call to introspection, more art that
challenged the audience. (Friday's scheduled lineup, which included the bands
Thumbscrew and Boom Tic Boom, had the upper hand in that regard.) One of the
more distinctive offerings came from the harpist Brandee Younger, who led a
quartet with poise and commitment. Her set included compositions by two of her
personal touchstones, Alice Coltrane and Dorothy Ashby, and was stronger for it.

There was also high-impact fusion from the tenor saxophonist Donny McCaslin, and
indie-stylized jazz-rock from the keyboardist Kris Bowers and, in a separate
set, the guitarist Nir Felder. And Dawn of Midi enacted its signature
transfiguration of electronic music by acoustic means, in a hypnotic,
muted-percussive performance whose dimensions kept morphing -- sometimes by
accretion, sometimes by subtraction, always with an icy sobriety. It was an
impressive feat of concentration that stayed almost entirely near the surface.

A similar condition plagued the much more expansive set by Mr. Washington, who
has been the subject of more glowing press this year than any new arrival in
jazz's recent history. Flanked, as usual, by two churning drummers, he muscled
through a series of anthems from ''The Epic,'' his triple album on Brainfeeder.
His fellow saxophonist, Terrace Martin, joined the band for a sustained sprint
through ''Final Thought,'' and the trombonist Ryan Porter had his say.

Almost every solo, including one on keytar by the pianist Brandon Coleman, held
to a frantic, filibustering cadence. And the band dynamic, which has come across
well at other recent shows, felt rote in its clamor: superhero jazz without a
clear mission, except the will to draw applause.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/arts/music/bric-jazzfest-grooves-with-a-five-h
our-marathon.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dawn of Midi with, from left, Amino Belyamani, Aakaash Israni
and Qasim Naqvi, performing on Thursday in Brooklyn.
 Brandee Younger playing at the BRIC JazzFest Marathon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IAN
DOUGLAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS &
EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC
(89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS
(88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); KNIT FABRIC MILLS
(62%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ohio: Special Prosecutor Sought in Tamir Rice Killing

BYLINE: By MITCH SMITH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | MIDWEST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 153 words


Samaria Rice, whose 12-year-old son, Tamir, was fatally shot last November by a
Cleveland police officer, called on Friday for a special prosecutor to be
appointed in her child's case. Ms. Rice and her lawyers said they had lost faith
in the Cuyahoga County prosecutor, Timothy J. McGinty, after he released two
reports from outside investigators that backed the officer's decision to shoot
Tamir. In a statement, Mr. McGinty defended the decision to release the reports
as an effort at transparency, and said he was committed to a fair grand jury
process. Mr. McGinty's office indicated that it saw no need for a special
prosecutor. Tamir had been carrying a replica gun before a police car pulled
within feet of him and the officer opened fire. The shooting was captured on
surveillance video and prompted protests in Ohio and other states. No timeline
has been announced for a grand jury decision on criminal charges.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/us/ohio-special-prosecutor-sought-in-tamir-ric
e-killing.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GRAND
JURY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EMERGENCY VEHICLES (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES
(72%); LAWYERS (70%)

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%)

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Texas: No Quick Ruling in Quest for Birth Certificates

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTHWEST; Pg.
16

LENGTH: 142 words


A federal judge in Austin has decided not to intervene on behalf of immigrant
families who were denied birth certificates for their United States-born
children because Texas health officials would not recognize some forms of
identification. Judge Robert Pitman of Federal District Court denied an
emergency injunction on Friday that had been sought by the families, who said
immediate harm was being done to them and their children. The judge said that
lawyers for the families had raised grave concerns but that additional evidence
was needed. Dozens of families and children sued the Department of State Health
Services after the local authorities refused to accept forms of foreign
identification. Though the parents are not United States citizens, the
Constitution guarantees citizenship to their children because they were born in
the United States.

URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/us/texas-no-quick-ruling-in-quest-for-birth-ce
rtificates.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); FAMILY (90%); US FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT (88%); IMMIGRATION (88%); INJUNCTIONS (88%); LAWYERS (87%); SUITS &
CLAIMS (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%)

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%)

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Louisiana: Deal Reached on Firefighters' Back Pay

BYLINE: By REUTERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | SOUTH; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 92 words


Mayor Mitch Landrieu of New Orleans said Friday that the city had agreed to pay
$75 million to settle a dispute with firefighters over back wages, ending a
quarrel in which he was threatened with house arrest. The city agreed to pay
firefighters the money over more than a dozen years to resolve the dispute,
which dates back to the 1980s. Completing the complex agreement, which involves
pension changes, will require action by the State Legislature and City Council,
Mr. Landrieu said. Voters will be asked to approve a tax increase to help pay
for it.



URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/us/louisiana-deal-reached-on-firefighters-back
-pay.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%);
LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%);
AGREEMENTS (85%); APPROVALS (82%)

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (91%)

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Broadway Stumbles in Brazil

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WOLFE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1113 words


SÃO PAULO, Brazil -- After the curtain fell on opening night, José Possi Neto,
the director of ''Nice Work if You Can Get It,'' climbed to a rooftop terrace
above the Teatro Cetip, high atop the traffic-clogged streets of Brazil's
largest and wealthiest city, and pushed his way through 150 or so of the
glitterati who had gathered to celebrate the show.

Kissing cheeks and accepting praise from fellow members of the musical theater
world, he gushed about the talent of his actors. He raved about the quality of
Broadway shows that in recent years have flourished here in translation. Then,
when asked about the future outlook for musicals, he balked: ''Pessimism,'' he
said in Portuguese, has taken root in Brazil.

A decade of economic vibrancy, starting around the turn of this century,
enriched Brazilians, who began to flock to Broadway productions, both in New
York and in their country. São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and other cities became
prime destinations for New York producers looking to get more mileage out of
their shows. They attracted new audiences from a population of some 200 million
who grew up on the music and theatrics of Carnival and the melodrama of
telenovelas.

But there are signs that Brazil's musical theater boom is on the wane as the
country slips into a deepening recession that began late last year. Unemployment
and inflation are on the rise; the economy is expected to shrink this year; and
a massive corruption scandal has shaken public confidence.

''We've suffered a lot,'' said Fernando Alterio, chief executive of Time for
Fun, the largest promoter of Broadway musicals in Brazil and the producer of
''Nice Work,'' which starred Kelli O'Hara and Matthew Broderick (and a long list
of Gershwin standards) when it opened in New York in 2012.

Before the recession, producers feverishly licensed musicals, and Brazilian
television stars clamored for the prestige of starring in a Broadway import or a
Brazilian original. As they have in many corners of the globe, ''Beauty and the
Beast,'' ''Phantom of the Opera'' and ''The Lion King'' raked in millions south
of the Equator, and even Broadway flops like ''Chaplin'' and ''Ghost'' found
audiences here. And as attendance grew, new theaters rose (including one with
1,200 seats that is to open next month), and others were refurbished.

In New York City, Brazilian tourists are among the fastest-growing segments of
Broadway ticket buyers, and the second-largest group of overseas visitors to the
city. (The British are first, while Brazilian tourists spent an estimated $2.3
billion last year, according to NYC & Company, the city's tourism marketing
arm.)

But the recession is chipping away at these gains. Producers in Brazil say
ticket sales for musicals there have plummeted 20 to 30 percent across the
industry this year. Time for Fun will mount fewer Broadway original productions
than planned. Other producers are cutting ticket prices, or costs.

The cast of ''The Full Monty,'' which opened in Rio last week, rehearsed in a
donated room of a barren mall. The producer and director, Tadeu Aguiar, reused
sets and costumes from his other shows -- although the police uniform stripper
costumes were created from scratch. Instead of a salary, the cast was offered a
cut of the box office. With no union to protect the actors, and unemployment
surpassing 8 percent, ''there are a lot of people who will do it for nothing,''
said one actor, André Dias.

The musical -- about unemployed workers in a depressed economy who turn to
stripping for a living -- will resonate in today's Brazil, he predicted: ''Every
Brazilian is trying to reinvent themselves. We are really living the story on
the stage.''

As the Brazilian real falls against the dollar --

nearly 40 percent over the last year --

fans of Broadway like Vanessa Bloomfield, a 42-year-old forestry engineer from
Rio, are finding it harder to travel to New York.

She expressed regret while standing in line alongside her mother at the
waterfront Vivo Rio theater in Rio for the opening night of ''Chaplin,'' a
biographical musical about Charlie Chaplin that had a short Broadway run.

On two trips to New York since 2011, Ms. Bloomfield said she saw ''Avenue Q,''
''The Lion King,'' ''Mamma Mia!'' and ''The Phantom of the Opera'' (twice).

''I would go right now, but my mom would have to pay for it,'' she said. ''With
the inflation, it's just too expensive.''

Still, interviews with over a dozen top musical theater producers in the United
States, Europe and Brazil reveal that almost all remain bullish about the
theater market in the long term. They argue that unlike theatergoers during the
last major recession here, 25 years ago, when musicals were still an oddity, the
audience is by now well established.

''Brazil has gone through a roller coaster during the last few years,'' said
Peter O'Keeffe, chief content officer at the Netherlands-based Stage
Entertainment, which is currently presenting ''Sister Act'' in São Paulo.

Unalarmed, Mr. O'Keeffe said this was typical of Latin American markets.

''A country drops off the map for a while and then comes back,'' he explained.
''Brazil is one of the strongest countries in Latin America. It's definitely not
a death knell by any means.''

American and Brazilian musical theater productions have been staged in Brazil
for decades, but ticket sales began to rise after a 2001 production of ''Les
Miserables'' in São Paulo, producers said.

Unlike New York, Brazil is not a place where the box office alone can sustain
shows. Sponsors -- usually large companies -- underwrite productions with
tax-deductible payments to producers, in exchange for publicity.

With sponsorship money drying up, producers are finding it harder to stage
challenging work. Ask Cláudio Botelho, who is dropping plans this year to
produce ''Sweeney Todd,'' Stephen Sondheim's dark look at a murderous barber.

Sounding not that different from a New York producer, he said: ''What sells now
are musical comedies with the thrill of a big star. I wouldn't risk doing a
different show, and I definitely wouldn't do a sad show at the moment.''

Old-fashioned American musicals, like ''Nice Work,'' can still do well, as long
as the task of translating English lyrics into Portuguese is done well, said
Miguel Falabella, a producer, translator and television actor who plays the lead
role of Jimmy Winter in the São Paulo production.

As for the American locations and themes in ''Nice Work,'' there's no need to
tinker.

''A millionaire whose father is going to give him his chair in the Senate, and
he's marrying a criminal -- that's so Brazilian,'' Mr. Falabella said. ''The
audience loves it.''




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/theater/broadway-musicals-big-draw-in-brazil-f
or-a-decade-lose-their-audience.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Miguel Falabella, a Brazilian musical theater performer. (C1)
 The cast of ''Nice Work if You Can Get It'' in São Paulo. Ticket sales for
musicals in Brazil have plummeted. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRISTIANO BURMESTER) (C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); THEATER (90%); RECESSION (89%);
ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC
CONDITIONS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (75%); IMPORT
TRADE (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INFLATION (73%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS
(72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (68%); TOURISM (65%);
INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (60%); SCANDALS (50%); CORRUPTION (50%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); EQUATOR (51%)

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In These Cover Versions, the Song Doesn't Remain the Same

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 457 words


Led Zeppelin's ''Kashmir,'' the encore that the versatile cellist Maya Beiser
added to her program ''All Vows,'' at BAM Fisher on Wednesday, proved not only
compelling in itself but also useful in rounding out a disjointed evening.
''Flourishes of the sacred and profane,'' her website promised of the
performance, and she delivered all that and more.

The first half offered rock and blues classics in arrangements by Evan Ziporyn,
beginning with Led Zeppelin's ''Black Dog,'' and new pieces by Glenn Kotche and
David T. Little. Superbly accompanied by Jherek Bischoff on bass and Zachary
Alford on drums, Ms. Beiser wailed loud and hard on an amplified cello or a
skeletal-looking electric instrument, her lines enhanced by prerecorded tracks
or electronic delay.

Appropriations like these are commonly known as covers, but Ms. Beiser likes to
call hers ''uncovers,'' implying that she is searching for the very core of the
song. That characterization seemed apt in some numbers, like Nirvana's
''Lithium,'' but the Gershwins' ''Summertime'' had traveled a long way from its
essence through the hands of Janis Joplin and Mr. Ziporyn to those of Ms.
Beiser. (The songs heard here, and others, appear on Ms. Beiser's latest album,
''Uncovered,'' from Innova.)

Mr. Little's ''Hellhound,'' evoking demonic pursuit, continued in a similar rock
vein. Ms. Beiser described Mr. Kotche's ''Three Parts Wisdom,'' written for her
without accompaniment, as ''Bach on meth,'' and she negotiated its furious
tremolos and other challenges with consummate virtuosity.

Things took a couple of sharp turns after intermission, beginning with
variations on a theme -- the Jewish prayer Kol Nidre, recited during Yom Kippur
-- by Mohammed Fairouz and Michael Gordon. ''Mohammed, a Muslim Arab-American,
and I, a Jewish Israeli-American,'' Ms. Beiser writes in the program booklet,
''share a vision: We believe in the power of music to heal and unite.'' Mr.
Fairouz's version was simply gorgeous, with Ms. Beiser playing the sinuous
Middle Eastern-tinged melodies and gently singing the prayer. Mr. Gordon
presented a more abstract, Minimalist view, nudging simple, repetitive melodic
fragments ahead at length -- perhaps too great a length -- before adding in the
prayer's opening words: ''All vows.''

That length was nothing compared with that of Michael Harrison's ''Just Ancient
Loops,'' set to a cryptic film by Bill Morrison. Still, Ms. Beiser's performance
was riveting and thoroughly wedded to the idiom, just as her earlier rock-outs
and reverential meditations had been.

­''All Vows'' will be repeated on Saturday evening at BAM Fisher, Brooklyn;
718-636-4100, bam.org. It will also be webcast live at littledoglive­.com.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/arts/music/review-maya-beiser-offers-a-concert
-of-both-rock-and-reverence.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: All Vows: The cellist Maya Beiser performing in her program at
BAM Fisher on Wednesday evening. The first half of the show offered versions of
classic rock and blues songs in arrangements by Evan Ziporyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
STEPHANIE BERGER)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC
(89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC (88%); YOM KIPPUR
(85%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (77%); MIDDLE EAST (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Woman Charged With Killing Her Baby Was Once a Day Care Provider

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA and EMILY PALMER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 742 words


The Bronx woman accused of throwing her 6-month-old baby to her death from a
window in a sixth-floor apartment was a licensed day care provider who until
recently cared for children in that home.

The woman, Tenisha Fearon, 27, was charged with murder on Friday. The case is
the third in recent months in which babies have been thrown to their deaths from
windows in their New York City homes -- two by mothers who had jobs directly
related to the welfare of children.

At Ms. Fearon's arraignment, Judge Kim Wilson of Criminal Court in the Bronx
ordered that the woman undergo a psychiatric evaluation and be held without bail
in protective custody.

Ms. Fearon was silent as the prosecution described the events on Thursday at
2200 Tiebout Avenue, near East 182nd Street.

The baby, Junilah Lawrence, was naked and alive when Ms. Fearon first dangled
her out the sixth-floor window, the prosecution said. Before letting the child
go, witnesses said, Ms. Fearon was screaming wildly, talking about how all of
her children would die.

Ms. Fearon's three other children, ranging in age from 4 to 10, watched in
horror, according to prosecutors. As people realized what was happening, many
gathered on the streets below and on rooftops nearby, pleading with her to stop
and begging her not to harm the other children.

The police arrived around 2 p.m., broke down the door to the apartment, and
found the other children lying on the floor, also naked. On Friday, the three
were placed temporarily in foster care.

Ms. Fearon's friends and relatives were trying to cope with what happened. Until
recently, they said, she had shown no signs of mental illness or disturbed
behavior.

Until April she was taking care of other children, running a small day care
operation from her apartment, according to relatives and state officials.

''Tenisha Fearon was a registered family day care provider from 2013 to 2015
with no complaints or violations,'' said Steve Flamisch, a spokesman for the
State Office of Children and Family Services. ''Her registration expired on
April 30, and she did not apply for renewal. Her program is closed.''

Ms. Fearon is currently out of work, and relatives said she quit offering day
care after the birth of her fourth child, saying that her pregnancy aggravated
her diabetes. It is a disease that runs in her family -- her mother died about
five years ago after several coma-inducing diabetic shocks.

Those close to Ms. Fearon said her children were the center of her life. She
dressed them well and took them out five days a week to play.

Juliet Fearon, Ms. Fearon's sister, said that the two had spoken on Monday and
that Ms. Fearon seemed to be looking for some sort of relief.

''She said she'd become an on-again Christian,'' she said.

But there were no obvious signs that she was approaching a breakdown.

Louella Hatch, who has known Ms. Fearon since she was born and described her as
''like a daughter,'' said she visited with her on Wednesday.

''She was cleaning her house,'' Ms. Hatch said. ''And when you're cleaning,
you're normal to me.''

But as she left the apartment, Ms. Fearon said something strange about Jesus and
the devil.

''I thought, 'Why is she telling me that when I go to church every Sunday?'''
Ms. Hatch said.

It was an odd comment, she said, but hardly suggested what was to come.

Ms. Fearon had a court-appointed lawyer for her arraignment, but it was unclear
who would represent her going forward.

As police officers escorted Ms. Fearon from the 46th Precinct station house on
Friday morning, she appeared disheveled and heavily sedated, staring straight
ahead as she addressed Ms. Hatch, who was there to offer support.

''I spoke to you; you didn't listen,'' Ms. Fearon said. ''You didn't listen.''

Ms. Hatch shook her head. ''That's something to swallow, I tell you,'' she said
shortly afterward, in an interview. ''She's like my child. It's tearing me up.
But I'm going to stick with her till the end because she needs help.''

Last month, Jennifer Berry, 33, was accused of throwing her newborn girl from
the seventh-floor window of an apartment building on East 183rd Street in the
Bronx.

Ms. Berry spent six months working in the child protective services branch of
the New York City Administration for Children's Services.

In August, the mother of a 3-week-old boy who died after plummeting from a
fourth-floor window in Queens was charged with intentionally killing her child.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/nyregion/accused-bronx-woman-was-a-daycare-pro
vider.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tenisha Fearon, left, escorted by the police on Friday, is
accused of throwing her 6-month-old from a sixth-floor window. Louella Hatch,
above, who has known Ms. Fearon since birth, said she would ''stick with her
till the end because she needs help.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); MURDER (90%); HOMICIDE (90%);
PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); CHILD
ABUSE (78%); EYEWITNESSES (78%); CHILD WELFARE (77%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT
(77%); FAMILY (77%); BAIL (70%); MENTAL ILLNESS (63%); DIABETES (63%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Audubon Mural Project Brings 5-Story Flock to Uptown Manhattan

BYLINE: By MATT A.V. CHABAN

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 580 words


Millions of birds are migrating through New York City at the moment, flying
south for the winter. Recently, 13 fowl of different species alighted on the
side of a building at the corner of 155th Street and Broadway. They have no
plans to go anywhere anytime soon.

This white-throated sparrow, yellow-bellied sapsucker, magnolia warbler and
their 10 companions are colored by spray paint, not feathers. They make up a
five-story mural that is the latest, and largest, installation by the Audubon
Mural Project.

Since taking flight last fall, this environmental campaign crossed with street
art has adorned 17 rolldown gates and building entrances in the uptown
neighborhoods John James Audubon once called home.

The piece, at 575 West 155th Street, is the first of what the organizers hope
will be many large-scale murals, along with more gates and facades. The goal is
to populate the area with paintings of 314 North American birds threatened by
the effects of climate change.

''People have really been enjoying the gates, but this mural is so eye-catching
and impactful, it's a slam dunk for us,'' said Mark Jannot, vice president of
content at the National Audubon Society.

The project is a collaboration between the National Audubon Society, a local
gallerist named Avi Gitler, and business and property owners throughout
Washington Heights and Harlem.

The new mural was created by an Ecuador-born, Newark-based artist who goes by
the name Lunar New Year. He made an almost exact replica of Audubon's own
drawing of a swallow-tailed kite (plate No. 72), then altered its black
hindfeathers into a canvas to depict the dozen other birds. These include the
Baltimore oriole, American kestrel, northern harrier and ring-billed gull.

''To me, the idea of a bird is very easily taken as a metaphor for migration and
breaking down borders,'' the artist said. ''I wanted to emphasize all these
different birds, different species, coming together as one flock, as we must to
save the planet.''

The location of the first large-scale mural is especially meaningful since it
rises across the street from Trinity Cemetery, where Audubon is buried. Though
he settled in Upper Manhattan in the 19th century, the artist and naturalist is
most famous for his quest to document the birds of the continent, resulting in
''The Birds of America,'' his seminal collection of 435 life-size prints.

By contrast, Lunar New Year works in a more political style, emphasizing the
struggles of underserved communities, whether downtrodden families in Newark or
dispossessed Navajo tribes in the Southwest. He considers his work in Manhattan
as being no different.

''It doesn't matter if you're human, all communities align with the same
struggles and the same fights,'' he said. ''It's mismanagement from government
or injustice or patriarchy or the overwhelming power of money.''

After nearly a year of painting, the Audubon Mural Project has decorated 18
properties with 30 birds, though the number of murals has been growing faster
because of increasing interest from local businesses and landlords. Mr. Gitler,
the curator of the project, hopes to have 25 finished by the end of the month,
including three more large murals by street artists like Hitness, Iena Cruz and
Gaia.

''With the latest mural, the project just feels more weighty now,'' Mr. Gitler
said. ''I think people could start saying, 'Oh, yeah, meet me by the bird.'  ''

Soon enough, people will have to start asking which bird.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/nyregion/audubon-mural-project-brings-5-story-
flock-to-uptown-manhattan.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRDS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PAINTING
(89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); STREET ART (77%); CELEBRITIES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (85%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Keeping a Hard Drive From Getting Too Full

BYLINE: By J. D. BIERSDORFER

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Q&A; Pg.

LENGTH: 495 words


Q. My Windows XP computer, which is running perfectly, has space for 29
gigabytes of new data out of a capacity of 146 gigabytes. How much more of the
29 gigabytes can I safely use without running into problems?

A. Windows will warn you when your drive is getting too full, but you should try
to keep at least 15 percent of your drive space free so that the Disk
Defragmenter program that comes with the system has enough room to work. So to
preserve that 15 percent from your total 146 gigabytes of hard drive space, you
should leave about 21.9 gigabytes free if you want to optimize your disk without
Windows complaining about space.

Running the Disk Defragmenter to rearrange where the files are stored within the
hard drive so the system can find them more quickly can help speed up the
computer, but running the Disk Cleanup tool helps you dump data you do not need
(like Internet temporary files and items in the Recycle Bin) and reclaim some of
that hard drive space. Most computer systems run more efficiently when the hard
drive has plenty of room to use the free space for things like virtual memory
and defragmenting, so the more free space you can conserve, the less you will
have to worry about it.

As Microsoft notes in many places around its website, it no longer provides
support for Windows XP, including updates to its own security software. If you
have not installed one already, a third-party security suite that still supports
Windows XP (like Kaspersky Anti-Virus or AVG) can help protect your old system
in a world full of new online threats.

Keeping Your Ears on the Road

Q. Is it legal to wear headphones while biking?

A. State and local laws vary, so check the regulations in your area. The League
of American Bicyclists has a list of state-by-state laws, but visit your state's
website for its most current regulations concerning road safety and bicycle
operation.

Some states, like Florida, ban the wearing of earphones or a headset while
operating a bicycle (presumably for listening to audio), but allow a headset
that provides sound in only one ear, like those for use with a cellular
telephone. In New York, you can use one earbud in general, but you must keep
your other ear free for listening. New York City abides by the one-earbud rule,
but it advises keeping both ears free from distraction while navigating city
streets and bike lanes.

Whatever the law happens to be, common sense should factor in as well because
distractions can be dangerous. Blasting music through a pair of headphones while
zooming through busy city streets is a potentially more hazardous situation than
biking on a remote trail in a rural area while using a Bluetooth earpiece to get
GPS directions or to accept an important phone call before stopping to finish
the chat.

Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to
QandA@nytimes.com This column will answer questions of general interest, but
letters cannot be answered individually.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/technology/personaltech/keeping-a-hard-drive-f
rom-getting-too-full.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DATA STORAGE DEVICES (91%); HARD DRIVES (90%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (78%);
INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%);
COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY
(76%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); MOBILE &
CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); CYCLING
(63%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (62%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE
(54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Studio Museum Curator Wins Irmas Award

BYLINE: By HILARIE M. SHEETS

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 249 words


Thelma Golden, the director and chief curator of the Studio Museum in Harlem,
has been selected the winner of the 2016 Audrey Irmas Award for Curatorial
Excellence.

''Thelma today may be thought of as part of the system but she still is a
gritty, independent voice raising many issues broader in society from the art
world,'' said Tom Eccles, the executive director of the Center for Curatorial
Studies at Bard College who polled more than 100 colleagues and former students
for nominees and oversaw a panel of 12 making the final deliberation. ''Many of
my students in the graduate program are thinking about the work of Thelma Golden
and asking to look at the 1993 Whitney Biennial and 'Black Male' and the kinds
of issues she's brought up at the Studio Museum.''

Ms. Golden started her career at the Studio Museum in 1987, spent a decade at
the Whitney Museum, and returned to the Harlem institution in 2000 as deputy
director. She has led the Studio Museum since 2005. Earlier this year she
announced plans for a new building designed by David Adjaye. ''Maintaining a
vision and a commitment over a long time to an institution that's not glamorous
or wealthy,'' Mr. Eccles said, was also a consideration of the panel.

Previous winners of the 19-year-old award include Marcia Tucker (1999), Kynaston
McShine (2003) and Lucy Lippard (2010). The award comes with a
no-strings-attached $25,000 prize.


This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/10/16/thelma-golden-wins-bard-curatorial-
award/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES
(71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Artists Equity Reopening a Gallery in Manhattan

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 380 words


A new gallery with a long history will join the downtown art scene this weekend.
Equity Gallery, founded by New York Artists Equity Association, a nonprofit
advocacy group, will host its inaugural exhibition on Saturday on the Lower East
Side. The association, known as Artists Equity, was founded in 1947 by more than
150 leading artists -- including Edward Hopper, Louise Nevelson and Thomas Hart
Benton -- as a way to promote and support artistic careers. Since then, it has
helped artists find health insurance, connect with curators and exhibit their
work.

But the group has been without a gallery since 2011, when a previous space,
Broome Street Gallery, closed after about 10 years, because the building housing
it was sold. Equity Gallery, at 245 Broome Street, was endowed by a gift from
the painters Jacob Lawrence and Gwendolyn Knight Lawrence, both former members.
Mr. Lawrence, who died in 2000, was also a past president of Artists Equity.

Though starting another gallery was on their wishlist, ''it wasn't possible
until the gift,'' said Melinda Wang, the executive director of Artists Equity.
The money allowed them to secure a three-year lease on the 700-square-foot
space, which they also plan to turn into a community and event hub.  Though it's
a nonprofit, and will be staffed by volunteers, the idea is that it will still
bring in sales. ''We're trying to go back to the core mission of being a
resource for artists,'' Ms. Wang said.

There are currently about 300 Artists Equity members, down from about 3,000 in
its heyday in the 1960s. Ms. Wang hopes that the new gallery's visibility will
help encourage enrollment, starting, perhaps, with the eight artists -- Alva
CalyMayor, Jim D'Amato, Ambre Kelly, Karen Lee, Patrick Meagher, Kambui Olujimi,
Jonathan Rider and Gretchen Scherer -- in the inaugural show, ''2015:1947.'' She
asked each of them to take inspiration from a founder of Artists Equity: some
went for well-known figures, like the modernist Yasuo Kuniyoshi, the
organization's first president; or the photographer Charles Sheeler; others
chose unsung heroes. The exhibition will include paintings, sculpture and video,
and runs through November 28th.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/10/16/artists-equity-to-reopen-a-gallery-
on-the-lower-east-side/

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS
(90%); ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); VISUAL
ARTISTS (89%); PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); VOLUNTEERS
(73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mercury Prize Nominees

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER D. SHEA

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 217 words


LONDON -- The nominees for this year's Mercury Prize, the biggest award for
British pop music, were unveiled on Friday.

They are Aphex Twin for the album ''Syro,''  Wolf Alice for ''My Love Is Cool,''
Roisin Murphy for ''Hairless Toys,'' C Duncan for ''Architect,'' Eska for her
self-titled album, Florence and the Machine for ''How Big, How Blue, How
Beautiful,'' Ghostpoet for ''Shedding Skin,'' Benjamin Clementine for ''At Least
for Now,'' Jamie xx for ''In Colour,'' SOAK for ''Before We Forgot How to
Dream,'' Gaz Coombes for ''Matador'' and Slaves for ''Are You Satisfied.''

The nominees were announced throughout the morning and early afternoon on BBC
Radio 6, the broadcaster's contemporary music channel.

Founded in 1992, the Mercury Prize, which comes with a cash prize of 20,000
pounds, or about $30,900, holds itself up as the ''music equivalent to the
Booker Prize for literature and the Turner Prize for art.'' It has projected the
careers of a number of emerging acts, like last year's winners, Young Fathers,
into the international arena. But in other years, major names like P.J. Harvey
and James Blake have been honored. This year's winner will be announced at a
ceremony in London on Nov. 20.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://artsbeat.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/10/16/mercury-prize-nominees-are-named/

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN LEIBSON/GETTY IMAGES FOR FLAUNT
MAGAZINE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); MUSIC
INDUSTRY (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); FICTION LITERATURE (71%)

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Red Sox Magicians Try Another Exorcism

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 972 words


Come to the Cubs, the miracle worker named Theo Epstein told Jon Lester when
they sat down last December to discuss the possibility of reprising what was
once a beautiful relationship in Boston. We have seen the future, and we're
going to be really good.

But when, Exalted Oracle, Lester inquired, weighing the specter of pitching at
Wrigley Field, for a team that won 73 games in 2014, finished last in the
National League's most formidable division and had never been adept at
convincing a devoted fan base that prosperity was only a spring training away.

''I didn't want to go through another down year and worry about rebuilding for
next year,'' Lester said.

Jed Hoyer, the No. 2 man in the front-office team of Epstein, the Cubs'
president, assisted in the presentation, which included video of the team's
emerging players, charts of their developmental progress and statistics to
support Epstein's contention that baseball's most lovable losers were really,
truly Kansas City Next.

''I said, 'Look, I'm not going to make any promises about 2015; I want to be
honest with you, given our relationship and everything that's at stake,' ''
Epstein said Friday as the Cubs worked out at Citi Field before the National
League Championship Series against the Mets. ''I told him, 'We'll be young, but
we'll be really talented, and if we get a few breaks and we stay healthy,
there's no reason why we can't be like the Royals.' ''

Sounds like a fair, honest appraisal, but Lester, long familiar with Epstein's
exorcism of failure at another old house of home-team horrors, had enough reason
to believe.

''I think the biggest thing that sold me, especially not only on these young
guys, but the whole organization, was just how arrogant he was about it, and I
mean that in a good way,'' Lester said.

The six-year, $155 million offer of Ricketts ownership family money surely
inspired him, too, but ultimately, it was Epstein's reputation, preceding him to
the table, that dissuaded Lester from returning to Boston, or going anywhere
else.

Now that he's been tabbed by Manager Joe Maddon -- Epstein's other high-profile
hire last off-season -- to pitch Game 1 on Saturday night, Lester at this point
might nod and say, ''Of course,'' if Epstein told him that for his next trick,
he would make serious presidential contenders of Lincoln Chafee and George
Pataki.

Lester said that knowing Epstein personally after his ascension to the majors in
2006 helped him distinguish between the con and the candor. No doubt there was
also the benefit of the doubt.

Of Kris Bryant, Anthony Rizzo and the Cubs' other young comers, Lester became
convinced that ''they weren't going to be a bust when the scouting report gets
out and going to get exposed and all that stuff.''

Who know what happens when Epstein's nurtured lineup of impressive young hitters
collides with the Mets' prized collection of hard-throwing hurlers? The
time-honored adage is that good pitching trumps good hitting, but let's for a
moment project the Cubs in the World Series and even winning it for the first
time in, oh, 107 years.

''I mean, it's got to end sometime, right?'' said Lester, who was a 20-year-old
southpaw dreamer in the lower echelon of the Red Sox chain when that
organization's 86-year championship drought ended in 2004 with a flood of happy
tears. Lester rose to pitch valiantly in the 2007 and 2013 World Series triumphs
that helped define a decade as a near Fenway dynasty.

He has already seen enough in Chicago to believe that history has a solid shot
of repeating itself at the intersection of Theo and Wrigley.

''I've seen it before, been part of it before,'' Lester said. ''And now getting
brought in with these guys and seeing what he's done again with all these young
kids is pretty special.''

On the surface, the first three seasons under Epstein were pretty much the Cubs
being the Cubs. But, Epstein conceded, what he achieved in Boston ''just helped
get us some patience, which was much needed, given the plan.''

This season, the Cubs won an electrifying 97 games, third-most in the division
but also in baseball. If they win eight more, Epstein might be asked by another
Chicago-centric president, Barack Obama, to get those rowdy House Republicans in
line, or intervene in Syria.

At present, Epstein understands if the baseball nation in general and Cubs fans
in particular believe, like Lester, that they are watching a Red Sox rerun.

''It comes up a lot, the obvious parallels,'' Epstein said. ''The fan bases are
similar, with the World Series drought, obviously, and the comparable
ballparks.''

Now 41, Epstein was only 30, a Boston-area-reared, Yale-educated master of the
baseball universe when the Red Sox did the unthinkable: They rallied from an 0-3
deficit against the hated Yankees to reach the 2004 World Series, where they
swept St. Louis. He became New England royalty, even after resigning a year
later on Halloween and, as Theo Lore has it, dodging reporters at Fenway Park,
at the wheel of a Volvo in a gorilla suit.

He returned soon after, sipped Champagne again in 2007, and left four years
later for Chicago.

Lester left Boston in late July last season, traded to Oakland for Yoenis
Cespedes in what now becomes another quirk of Cubs-Mets karma. In his news
conference Friday, he referred to them as ''storied franchises,'' leaving out
the sob syllable, but acknowledging that one of these teams could soon create
quite a legacy.

If it happens to be the Cubs, Lester knows that what awaits them in Chicago is
what the 2004 Red Sox have become in Boston.

''Those guys are legends,'' he said. ''Dave Roberts stole one base, and this guy
hasn't paid for a meal or drink since.''

On top of them all would be Epstein, the 800-pound gorilla in the front office
and aspiring all-time baseball Ghostbuster.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/sports/baseball/jon-lester-and-theo-epstein-tw
o-red-sox-magicians-try-another-exorcism-with-cubs.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Theo Epstein, the Cubs' president, during the team's workout
Friday at Citi Field. Epstein and Jon Lester reunited in Chicago. (D1)
Theo Epstein, third from right at Citi Field on Friday, left Boston in 2011 for
the Cubs. ''The fan bases are similar,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN SOLOMON
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D4) GRAPHICS
 CHART: N.L.C.S. Schedule

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS
(76%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2016 (73%); HEADS OF GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS
(68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (84%); NEW YORK METS (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (54%); C (BMV) (54%); 8710 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD
ISSUING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (55%)

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); MISSOURI, USA (55%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

How to Approach Student Loans, as First Payments Come Due

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS.

Email: yourmoneyadviser@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY ADVISER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 758 words


IF you graduated from college last spring, it may soon be time to start repaying
your student loans.

Many federal student loans come with a six-month grace period after graduation,
during which payments are not required. The idea is that new graduates need some
breathing room while they (hopefully) land a job, buy a work wardrobe and find
an apartment to rent, which will probably require a security deposit and
furnishings.

That means many 2015 graduates may need to start making loan payments in
November. (Some federal loans offer a longer grace period, and grace periods for
private loans vary.) So student borrowers who have so far avoided thinking about
the eventual repayment of their debts need to start focusing.

Mark Kantrowitz, a financial-aid expert, suggests that borrowers make a list of
all their loans, including the lender, the servicer and the date when repayment
begins. It's not unusual for students to have up to a dozen separate loans.
''It's very easy to overlook a loan,'' he said. If you're unsure of the details,
you can check the Education Department's National Student Loan Data System.

Often, Mr. Kantrowitz said, borrowers are late with their first payment because
they don't know where to send it or are unaware of the due date. But borrowers
are responsible for making the first payment on time, even if they don't receive
a formal statement or payment book from their lender. So borrowers should
contact their servicer to make sure that their current address and other contact
information are on file.

Borrowers should also choose a payment plan, said Lauren Asher, president of the
Institute for College Access & Success. If borrowers don't select one, they will
automatically be signed up for the standard 10-year repayment plan, which comes
with a fixed monthly payment. This is usually the lowest-cost option over the
long term, but monthly payments are higher.

Borrowers who think they will have trouble managing standard payments should
consider an alternative repayment option. Some programs link monthly payments to
borrowers' income, while others offer a ''graduated'' repayment plan, with
monthly amounts that increase over time. Borrowers' eligibility for the various
plans depends on the type of loan and, in some cases, when the money was
borrowed.

Borrowers can go to the Education Department's online student loan estimator and
have the system calculate the lowest monthly payment for which they qualify.
''Tools and options for borrowers have gotten better,'' Ms. Asher said.

If tracking multiple payments is confusing, one option is consolidating the
loans -- but consider the pros and cons carefully, Mr. Kantrowitz said. It often
makes financial sense to pay down the loan with the highest interest rate first.
But if you consolidate, you will lose the option of targeting specific loans for
extra payments. (Combining federal loans will result in a new loan with an
interest rate that is a weighted average of the individual loans.) So borrowers
may want to keep the loan with the highest rate separate and combine the rest.

And never consolidate federal loans into a private loan, the institute's Project
on Student Debt says. You may lose important federal protections, like the
option to temporarily postpone payments if you lose your job.

The Student Loan Borrower Assistance program can help borrowers weigh the
trade-offs involved with consolidation.

Here are some questions and answers about student loan repayment:

â-  Can I get a discount if I make automatic loan payments?

If you have your monthly payment electronically debited from your bank account,
you may receive a discounted interest rate on your federal loans, and on some
private loans, too. Automatic deductions can also help you avoid late payments.
Just make sure your balance is sufficient to cover the payments, to avoid
overdraft fees.

â-  I'm going to graduate school. Do I have to start repaying my undergraduate
loans?

You can request an in-school deferment, which lets you postpone payment on your
undergraduate loans. But interest on some loans may accrue while you're in
school, which could increase your total debt.

â-  Can I change my repayment plan after I start making payments?

Yes. If your initial payment plan isn't working for you, you can select another
one, according to the Education Department.

Make the most of your money. Every Monday get articles about retirement, saving
for college, investing, new online financial services and much more. Sign up for
the Your Money newsletter here.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/your-money/how-to-approach-student-loans-as-fi
rst-payments-come-due.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (93%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT
LIFE (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS
(50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Fantasy-Sports Non-Scandal

BYLINE: By MARK ST. AMANT.

Mark St. Amant is the author of ''Committed: Confessions of a Fantasy Football
Junkie.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 834 words


LIKE many fantasy football players of a certain age, I began with an office
league. It was the 1990s, when we tallied points with newspaper box scores, pens
and scratch paper. Despite its being more of a hobby among work buddies, I was
instantly hooked -- on the office camaraderie, on the knowledge and skill needed
to build a roster and set weekly lineups, on the Vegas-level thrill of having
''action'' on every game. I might even win a few bucks at the end of the season.

Eventually I got so deep into fantasy football that I quit my job, wrote a
memoir and contributed weekly columns to fantasy sports sites. And I could,
because through the 2000s fantasy sports went mainstream. In the '90s, you were
the office weirdo if you played fantasy sports; by the mid 2000s, you were an
outcast if you didn't. Still, I figured it would stay that way, more or less: a
hobby.

That all changed in 2009, when a new company called FanDuel helped introduce the
idea of daily fantasy sports. Unlike the season-long, small-stakes activity that
came before it, daily fantasy sports compresses the excitement of season-long
leagues -- drafting and managing teams, having action on every game -- into a
single week or even a day, all over an Internet platform that allows for immense
pools of players, and money. Suddenly, you could win as much as $2 million
within hours, not 16 weeks.

I dove in, and I've been playing ever since.

And yet, for me and for millions of players like me, it remains a hobby, an
entertainment, a way to add a little spice to our sports-viewing diet. Despite
advertising from FanDuel and its rival, DraftKings, showing players winning
millions, I'm happy to win a few bucks -- and even happy to win nothing at all.

That doesn't mean I haven't watched with amazement, and a little concern, as
FanDuel and DraftKings have grown almost overnight into $1 billion companies --
thanks to nearly $3 billion in annual participant entry fees and investors like
Google, Comcast and Robert Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots. They
have lucrative deals with virtually every pro league, and with individual
National Football League franchises. DraftKings has a $250 million partnership
with ESPN and Fox Sports, who reportedly invested $150 million. Eilers Research,
a gambling research firm, estimates that the industry will reach $14.4 billion
by 2020.

The key to the industry's growth is a loophole. Considered a game of ''skill''
versus ''chance,'' daily fantasy sports is exempt from the 2006 Unlawful
Internet Gambling Enforcement Act, which prohibited payments to online gambling
sites. As a result, the industry is essentially unregulated, left to monitor
itself.

Evidently, it's not doing a very good job. Last week Ethan Haskell, a DraftKings
employee, published proprietary information about the percentages of DraftKings
participants who ''owned'' different N.F.L. players used in lineups on the
site's biggest daily fantasy football contest. It was a seemingly accidental
goof that might have passed unnoticed -- had Mr. Haskell not used this
potentially large strategic advantage to win $350,000 in a similar contest on
FanDuel.

Cries of ''insider trading!'' instantly rang out. The F.B.I., the New York
attorney general and the Department of Justice began investigations.
Class-action suits have been filed; Harry Reid, the Senate minority leader from
Nevada, has called for federal oversight.

It's tempting to join the pitchfork brigade. These companies have spent over
$100 million on advertising to get more people to sign up, even as their
employees were using proprietary information to cheat (both companies have since
barred employees from participating in daily fantasy sports).

But the truth is, I don't care. And I doubt most players do, either.

Despite the legal fiction that daily fantasy sports is about ''skill,'' any
rational person should know that it's gambling, and any rational person is going
to be in it for fun, not profit. Tsk-tsking a lack of transparency in an
unregulated, billion-dollar industry is like going to a gentlemen's club and
being outraged that the dancers' breasts are fake.

Yes, I'd rather not have to beat DraftKings or FanDuel employees who might have
access to confidential data. But even if the Ethan Haskells of the industry are
all barred from the game, I'm still unlikely to beat the ''sharks,'' the
hard-core players who have flowed into the game with sophisticated software to
analyze lineups and make last-minute switches -- and who are the real big-money
winners, without a bit of insider information.

I know that even for someone like me, with more fantasy sports experience than
most, I'd need a miracle to win big. And every daily fantasy sports fan I know
feels the same. For us, the ''scandal'' is a joke: While there's now a glaring
spotlight on the industry, and the big guys will finally have to get their
houses in order, the only thing shocking about this whole story is that anyone
could possibly be shocked.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/opinion/the-fantasy-sports-non-scandal.html

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEANDRO CASTELAO)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FANTASY SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS
(90%); SPORTS (90%); GAMBLING (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); INTERNET & WWW
(74%); NEW BUSINESSES (67%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (64%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (62%); GOOGLE INC (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION
BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING &
WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Benefits of Meditation, Without the Hard Sell

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 545 words


To the Editor:

In ''Let's End This Meditation Madness'' (Op-Ed, Oct. 10), Adam Grant asks
others to stop judging him for not meditating and reports that meditation has
modest health benefits that can be achieved through other means.

In fact, there are more than a thousand scientific papers documenting the
benefits of meditation on health. This effect has been observed on the
physiological and clinical levels. Since funding for nonpharmaceutical
treatments poses obvious challenges, these studies probably represent a small
portion of the positive effects of meditation on physical and emotional
well-being.

Yes, such benefits can certainly be achieved through other means. But few are as
inexpensive, universally accessible and time-proven as meditation.

Lastly, since a cornerstone of meditation is acceptance of our limitations and
the plurality of humankind, I wonder if those judging Mr. Grant have truly
embraced the meaning of this millenniums-old practice.

JULIA SAMTON

New York

The writer is a neurologist and a psychiatrist.

To the Editor:

May Adam Grant forgive me for challenging his point of view, but I have found
meditation to be a door opener. By meditating for 11 minutes or so a day, I have
discovered secrets that became unlocked.

Kindness has penetrated my being thoroughly. I rarely criticize myself or others
or get angry. If I do, I stop, apologize and correct myself (this is still a
process).

My days are full of synchronicity, and I seldom have one in which events do not
fit in place like a puzzle. Meditation has exposed me to a different life from
the one I had before. I work at being a good citizen and try to be a peaceful
and loving person.

I tend not to say anything to people about meditation. It is their business to
find it, but on the other hand, it seems as if we need more advocates of
meditation in the world, not fewer.

MARGARET MERKOW

Orono, Minn.

To the Editor:

It seems as if Adam Grant might be conflating the teachings of mindfulness
practice (and meditation) with the evangelical zeal he encounters. Perhaps the
friends who are preaching and proselytizing about meditation may be missing the
point.

Mindfulness teaches profound acceptance, which would not encourage pressing
others (or oneself) to become ''converted.'' In fact, these concepts --
mindfulness/meditation and evangelism -- are antithetical.

And it is not simply a tool for stress reduction but a philosophical and
spiritual practice that was never intended to become a ''quick fix'' or a
substitute for drugs, psychotherapy or exercise. Rather, it is the teachings of
Zen wisdom, and a way of life.

JANET BECKER

New York

The writer is a psychotherapist.

To the Editor:

Seriously, meditation madness? Have the proponents of meditation become zealots?

I live in Los Angeles and Boulder, Colo., and I have never had someone try to
sell meditation to me. O.K., maybe three times. In 50 years. Hardly an explosion
in popularity.

I can't wait to hear Adam Grant's complaint about bell bottoms: ''Why are people
always trying to get me to wear bell bottoms? Because Jimi Hendrix wears them?
Well, he also takes LSD, so I'm sure not going to wear the same pants as someone
tripping on psychedelics.''

MICHAEL KELEM

Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/opinion/benefits-of-meditation-without-the-har
d-sell.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDITATION (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); RELIGION
(84%); WRITERS (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%);
NEUROSCIENCE (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

STATE: COLORADO, USA (50%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fetal Tissue Research

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 126 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Planned Parenthood Changes Fetal Tissue Policy'' (front page, Oct. 14):

It's time to start asking those who oppose the use of fetal tissue in scientific
research some tough questions. Will they get behind their beliefs and renounce
their own personal use of any medical advances, vaccines or medicines that have
been developed using fetal cells?

If the use of fetal tissue in scientific research is so morally repugnant to
these people, reaping the health benefits derived from it cannot be defended.

Let them answer this question: Are you ready to open your medical histories and
disclose the ways in which you and your loved ones may have benefited, and will
continue to benefit, from fetal cell research?

ELISABETH STRAUS

New York




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/opinion/fetal-tissue-research.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); LETTERS &
COMMENTS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (87%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); VACCINES (84%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (84%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Chamber's Capitalism

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 108 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Big Tobacco's Powerful Friend in Washington'' (front page, Oct. 10):

Many thanks for your thorough and hard-hitting investigation of the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce and its advocacy for Big Tobacco, led by the chamber's chief
executive, Thomas J. Donahue. You call this ''American style'' capitalism. In
fact, it is simply capitalism in its most brutal form.

Consider not only Big Tobacco but also the fossil fuel industry: In a country
bereft of effective and wise government leadership attentive to citizens' needs,
this unchecked economic system is wrecking our country and destroying the
planet.

ELLEN CANTAROW

Medford, Mass.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/opinion/us-chambers-capitalism.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUSINESS &
PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (87%); CHAMBERS OF COMMERCE (85%); EXECUTIVES (84%);
EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Less Polarized Elections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 166 words


To the Editor:

As David Brooks notes (''Clinton's Opportunist Solution!,'' column, Oct. 9),
candidates swing to extremes to woo party bases for primaries and caucuses, then
shift to the center for general elections.

Center-left to center-right moderate majority voters dismayed by the tenor of
public discourse during the primary season need to wake up and regularly get to
the polls or caucuses for both presidential and congressional elections. This
may entail registering for a party in states where that is required for primary
and caucus participation.

If more general-election voters participated in primaries and caucuses, the
aspirations and candidacies of moderates would be strengthened, leading in time
to a less polarized, more effective government.

Perhaps in this age of social media, this message could be quickly and broadly
disseminated in advance of coming primaries. Politics will never be perfect, but
I have to believe that we can do better.

ERIC D. TUCKER

Cross River, N.Y.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/17/opinion/less-polarized-elections.html

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY
ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS
(90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HEADS OF
GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mathieu Kérékou, 82; Led Benin in Two Roles

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 623 words


Mathieu Kérékou, who seized control of the West African nation of Benin in a
military coup in 1972 and proclaimed a one-party Marxist state, but nearly two
decades later presided over the region's first peaceful transition from
dictatorship to democracy, died on Wednesday in Cotonou, Benin. He was 82.

His death was announced by his elected successor, Thomas Boni Yayi.

Mr. Kérékou led Benin, an impoverished cotton-growing country the size of
Pennsylvania on the Gulf of Guinea, in two different guises: as its strongman
from 1972 to 1991, and as its democratically elected president from 1996 to
2005. In that transformation, from one to the other, is where is his most
enduring legacy lies.

Under pressure from a conference of prominent citizens he had convened, he
agreed to hold free elections in 1991 and then agreed to give up power when he
lost.

The decision set off an unraveling of one-party rule across West Africa,
inspiring movements toward multiparty democracy.

He returned to power in 1996 in a free election and served two terms.

Nicknamed the Chameleon for his protean politics, Mr. Kérékou could also be
mercurial in his behavior. On a trip to the United States in 1999, he stunned an
all-black Baltimore church congregation by falling to his knees and begging
forgiveness for the ''shameful'' and ''abominable'' role that Africans played in
the slave trade.

In 1975, he burst into the home of his interior minister, found him committing
adultery with Mr. Kérékou's wife, and ordered him shot to death as the man fled
naked.

Mr. Kérékou was born on Sept. 2, 1933, in Kouarfa, in the northwest of what was
then Dahomey, a French colony. He studied at military schools there and in
France, served as an aide to the Dahomeyan president after France granted the
colony independence in 1960, and later became chairman of the Military
Revolutionary Council after his cousin ousted the incumbent president.

A lieutenant colonel at the time, Mr. Kérékou seized power in 1972, in the fifth
coup since the colony had become independent. (He was a general by the time he
retired from the army in 1987.)

Mr. Kérékou adopted a Marxist-Leninist platform two years after the coup,
renamed the nation the People's Republic of Benin (after a kingdom that
flourished in the 17th century) and nationalized its oil companies and banks.

Over time his People's Revolutionary Party became less revolutionary and
captivated fewer and fewer people, but Mr. Kérékou was nothing if not adaptable.
(''The stick cannot break in the arms of a chameleon,'' he liked to say, and his
own swagger stick was decorated with a picture of one.)

He pursued an increasingly moderate socialist agenda as the economy worsened,
following the lead of the Warsaw Pact nations in abandoning Marxism altogether
in 1989.

A year later, he publicly confessed guilt for his mistakes to the local Catholic
archbishop and asked forgiveness for his government's flaws. The gesture,
however, was not enough to generate the popular support he needed to win in the
first democratic presidential election in 1991.

In his return to power in 1996 and again in 2001, he squeaked by to victory
after disputed vote counts.

The country's Constitution limited him to two terms and in any case barred him
from running again because he was older than 70.

Information on his survivors was not immediately available.

In 2005, after dominating Beninese politics for nearly three decades -- more
than half the country's existence -- Mr. Kérékou, then 72, announced that he
would not try to overturn the two-term limit.

''If you don't leave power,'' he said, ''power will leave you.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/10/16/world/africa/mathieu-kerekou-dictator-who-ushe
red-in-democracy-in-benin-dies-at-82.html

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mr. Kérékou taking the presidential oath of office in 1996.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHE SIMON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); COUPS (90%); MILITARY RULE (89%); POLITICS
(89%); MARTIAL LAW (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); DICTATORSHIPS
(78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HEADS OF
GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (73%); SHOOTINGS (72%);
COTTON & COTTONSEED (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); SLAVERY (68%)

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%)

COUNTRY: BENIN (98%); WESTERN AFRICA (93%); FRANCE (92%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED
STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths WEISS, IRMA GIUSTINO

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 282 words


WEISS--Irma Giustino. Died peacefully on October 6, 2015 at New York
Presbyterian Hospital. This extraordinary woman was 96 years old.

She was born on March 30, 1919 in New York City where she lived all of her long,
productive life. She was a 1945 graduate of the School of Art at The Cooper
Union, to which she was a devoted and generous alumna, establishing the Irma
Giustino Weiss Scholarships for meritorious students in art and architecture and
the IGW Cultural Enrichment Fellowship Program. The latter was particularly
close to Irma's heart, as it provided students with the financial means to
experience the unique artistic, theatrical and cultural treasures of New York
City. The other favorite object of her substantial philanthropy was the Whitney
Museum, to which she was a major donor, contributing at the highest levels,
primarily towards the new building. She had a successful career and marriage.
Irma was the first female hired in the Art Department of Triangle Publications,
later received two Art Director Awards for her work at Ziff Davis Publishing,
and ultimately became a Creative Director at Conde Nast Publications. She
married Benjamin Weiss in 1969, and he predeceased her on October 23, 1992. It
was a magical marriage, whose romance never ended. A building at Rockefeller
University is named for them. She was a woman of style, an exceptional cook,
highly intelligent, witty and a "liberal" in the best sense of the word. She
deeply cared about human rights. Right up to her death, she was a yeasayer to
life, going at it full blast, benefitting always from her most treasured virtue,
her curiosity. In due course, a memorial service will be held in her honor. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS
& GRANTS (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%);
PHILANTHROPY (71%)

COMPANY: ZIFF-DAVIS PUBLISHING CO (55%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths TAYLOR, KENNETH D

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 105 words


TAYLOR--Kenneth D. The Trustees, alumni, residents and staff of International
House note with great sorrow the passing of Ambassador Ken Taylor, an esteemed
member of our Board since October, 1985, and a devoted supporter of our mission.
Ken and his wife, Dr. Patricia Taylor, distinguished chair of our Women's
International Leadership Program's Advisory Council, have inspired and touched
the lives of hundreds of I-House residents around the world over the years
through their example of leadership, courage and grace. Our deepest sympathy is
extended to Pat and the family. Frank G. Wisner, Chairman Calvin Sims, President
1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths SOHN, LYDIA

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 77 words


SOHN--Lydia, 73, peacefully at home on October 15, 2015. Longtime dedicated
reading specialist in New York City Public Schools. Beloved mother of Stefanie,
mother-in-law of David Jackson, dear grandmother of Hunter, cherished sister of
the late Irene, brother-in-law of Charles, sweet aunt to Scott. Service Sunday,
October 18, 12:45pm at "The Riverside," 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Donations in
her memory may be made to: Reading is Fundamental, www.rif.org 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%)

ORGANIZATION: READING IS FUNDAMENTAL (54%)

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths MULLIGAN, WILLIAM

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 224 words


MULLIGAN--William. William "Bill" Anthony Mulligan, 72, died Saturday, August
22, 2015 in Lloyd Neck, NY. Born November 23, 1943 in Huntington, NY to Louise
and Frank Mulligan he was a long time very well-known mining professional, based
in New York. After receiving a Bachelor of Science degree from Clarkson
University, an MS in Geological Engineering from the University of Connecticut,
and an MBA from NYU Bernard Baruch School of Business Administration, he served
with distinction in the US Marine Corps, worked for various mining companies
such as Amax and Latin American Gold, numerous investment and commercial banks
including Lehman Brothers, Chase Manhattan, Prudential Bache and finally as
Managing Director for Global Projects and Political Risk at AIG Global Trade and
Political Risk Insurance Company. He was also a director of Arcon International
PLC, and most enjoyably in his latter years, of Griffin Mining Ltd from October
1997 until December 2013. He also enjoyed fishing, hunting, and spending time
with loved ones. Surviving are three children, Katherine Ryan, Amy Mulligan and
William E. Mulligan; two grandchildren, Briton Ryan and Brody Ryan and his
sisters Bernadette Haagenson and Rita Dragonette. A Memorial Service will be
held on Saturday, October 24, 2015 at St. John's Episcopal Church in Huntington
at 11am. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); MINES & MINING (77%); MINING ENGINEERING
(77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (74%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS
(71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); MANAGERS & SUPERVISORS (69%); FINANCIAL
GUARANTY INSURANCE (69%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); POLITICAL RISK INSURANCE (68%);
INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%)

COMPANY: GRIFFIN MINING LTD (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); AMERICAN
INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (57%)

TICKER: GFM (LSE) (69%); AIG (NYSE) (56%); 8685 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212231 LEAD ORE & ZINC ORE MINING (69%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE
MINING (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211
SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT
PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE
CARRIERS (56%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths LEDDY, VIRGINIA

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 76 words


LEDDY--Virginia, a longtime resident of Larchmont passed away on October 14,
2015. Beloved mother of Scott (Andrea), Jeff, Kira Wilson (Andrew), Aimee North
(Christopher). Adoring Grandmother of eight grandchildren. Former wife of Kevin
Leddy. Dear sister of Mary Garvey. Visiting Monday 1-4 and 7-9 at John J. Fox
Funeral Home Inc. in Larchmont. Mass Tuesday 11:00am at St. Augustine Church in
Larchmont. Interment Private. For full obit. At JJFFH.com 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); GRANDCHILDREN (85%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths KUGLER, SEYMOUR

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 36 words


KUGLER--Seymour. The Board of Governors and the members of the Seawane Club,
record with sorrow the loss of our long time member, Seymour Kugler. We extend
our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Paul Kotcher, President 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths HANLON, ROBERT M.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 45 words


HANLON--Robert M.,Jr., of Point Lookout, NY, in his 83rd year on October 7,
2015. Beloved son of the late Robert M. and Marian Meaney Hanlon. Predeceased by
his loving first cousin, Claire P. McCrudden and survived by his much loved
Iggy. Funeral and burial were private. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GOLDSCHMIDT, CHARLES

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 18 words


GOLDSCHMIDT--Charles. To a loving friend whose wit and humor will be sorely
missed. Charlie's Bridge Game 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths GOLDSCHMIDT, CHARLES

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 203 words


GOLDSCHMIDT--Charles, 94, of Mamaroneck, New York, passed away peacefully at
home on October 15, 2015, survived by his cherished and devoted wife of 64
years, Patricia, his beloved children and their spouses, Richard and Karen, Jane
and Robert, Peter and Caitlin, and adoring grandchildren Chelsea, Evan, Sara,
Molly, Claire and Remy. A lifelong New Yorker with a second home in Phoenix,
Arizona, "Charlie" was a pioneer and leader in the advertising industry, founder
and Chairman of agency Daniel & Charles and its successor firms that followed. A
graduate of NYU, he proudly served in the U.S. Navy throughout WWII as Executive
Officer of the U.S.S. Bellatrix. A kind and caring man, he would do anything to
help others in need, and was devoted to his entire family. Our navigator through
life, he will be deeply missed by all of us, as well as scores of other
relatives and dear friends. Funeral services will be held at Zion Memorial
Chapel, 767 E. Boston Post Road, Mamaroneck, NY on Sunday, October 18 at
10:00am. Burial will follow at Mount Hebron Cemetery, 130-04 Horace Harding
Expressway, Flushing, NY. Our family will receive guests at 710 The Crescent,
Mamaroneck, NY on Sunday, October 18, 5:00-7:00pm. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); NAVIES (74%);
EXECUTIVES (70%); US NAVY (69%); WORLD WAR II (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING
(55%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%)

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (71%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); ARIZONA, USA (90%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths DEMICHIELL, ROBERT

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 19 words


deMICHIELL--Robert. To our beloved friend, Robert, we miss and adore you. Love
forever, Your 101 Productions Family 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths CASSIDY, MSGR

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 30 words


CASSIDY--Msgr. James P. The family of George K. Cooney mourn the passing of a
wonderful priest and friend. The Cooney family recognize his great work and
dedication to health care. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths CASSIDY, MSGR

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 295 words


CASSIDY--Msgr. James P. Passed away October 14, 2015 at Calvary Hospital, Msgr.
Cassidy was born on May 10, 1925 in New Rochelle, NY. He is the son of the late
Patrick and Ellen Cassidy.

He is pre deceased by his brothers, Thomas, Joseph A. and John G. He is survived
by his brother Raymond G. and his wife Marie. Beloved uncle of 19 nieces and
nephews as well as 53 grandnieces and nephews. Msgr received his B.A. Degree
from St. Joseph's Seminary in 1950. Ordained a priest of the Archdiocese of New
York in 1951. Received a M.S., Degree and a Ph.D. from Fordham in Educational
Psychology. Did Post-Doctoral work in Clinical Psychology at Fordham and St.
Vincent's Hospital. Msgr served as parish priest, first Holy Eucharist in
Yonkers from 1951-1954 and Also St. Barnabas in Woodlawn 1954-1964. Msgr served
as Director, Family Consultation Service, and Associate Professor at St., John's
University. From 1972 to 1989 Director of Dept of Health and Hospitals for Arch
of New York. He served as Chancellor of the New York Medical College from 1987 -
1992. From 1992 until 1995, he served as Director of International Association
of Catholic Health Institution in Rome; from 1995-2000 he served as the
Administrator of Holy Spirit Church in Cortland Manor, 2000-2003 he served as
Director of Counseling at North American College in Vatican City. Msgr served as
Conventual Chaplain at the Order of Malta and was awarded the Grand Cross Pro
Piis Meritis on his 90th birthday. Msgr. Cassidy will be waked at Lloyd Maxcy &
Sons, 16 Shea Place, New Rochelle, NY on Sunday, October 18, 2015 from 4pm to
8pm. Mass will be held Monday, October 19, 2015 at 10am at St. Patrick's
Cathedral. Donations can be made to TCC Healthcare Center and Calvary Hospital
in lieu of flowers. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%);
CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); HOSPITALS (78%);
GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); SEMINARIES (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%);
ASSOCIATIONS & ORGANIZATIONS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (56%)

CITY: ROME, ITALY (69%)

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ITALY (69%); HOLY SEE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 175 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Paid Notice: Deaths ANDERSON, LENNART

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 33 words


ANDERSON--Lennart. The American Academy of Arts and Letters notes with sorrow
the death of our esteemed colleague, a modern master whose paintings reflect the
tenderness and elegance of the man. 1/3

URL:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2015


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company
